From Aviashima Toom, makurdi
Wife of immediate past governor of Benue state, Mrs Yemisi Suswam has appealed to people of the state not to politicise her pet programme SEV AV Foundation saying it is not a partisan project.
Mrs Suswam who made the appeal at the 9th combined graduation ceremony of  the SEV AV skills acquisition centres across the three senatorial district said the programme has no political or government affiliation whatsoever be it in the past present or future.
“It is purely out of genuine heart and love of God, humanitarian and for the advancement of the economy of this society.”
“SEV AV FOUNDATION is purely non governmental organisation deeply committed to saving lives of HIV/AIDS ravaged people, empowering the youths and women self reliance and consequently postulating them to contribute to the economic development of the generality of the society,” she said.
She said the foundation which was established since 2008 was aimed at complementing the efforts of government in bringing succour to the people particularly the less privileged.
Mrs. Suswam said the skills acquisition project remained free after payment of the application fee saying the programme will guarantee immediate source of income soon after graduation and the families of participants will be better for it.
She said the organisation’s achievements in the last seven years remain a testimony to the various gain and direct impact the NGO has on the society and its people.
However appealed to families to send their idles/unemployed wards/children to take advantage of any of the skills centres and enrolled either in then computer department, fashion/tailoring or catering department,
“any of these will guarantee immediate source of income soon after graduation and the families will be better for it. Idleness remains the biggest workshop of the devil” she noted.
Mrs. Suswam informed that the January session begin immediately and would remain free for all regardless of your gender, tribe, religion or political interest.
She congratulated the graduates for their boldness and determination for self-actualization

			
			Post Views: 
			77