By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
 
The Special Enforcement Team (SET) of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a suspected drug baron, believing to be coordinating a large volume of methamphetamine and ephedrine distribution in the country.
 
Tochukwu Harris Ubah was apprehended after intense undercover operations in connection with illegal exportation of 576kgs of narcotics to Durban, South Africa through Apapa Port.
 
The drug valued at N4.6billion was made up of 266kg of methamphetamine and 310kgs of ephedrine were hidden inside noodles, cereals and palm oil.
 
According to preliminary investigations by the NDLEA revealed that the suspect, Tochukwu Harris Ubah aka Etochukwu Alaek Weubah and Eto Ubah has a company Visoch Resources Limited which he has been using as a cover for his clandestine drug business.
 
Although surveillance report indicates that he is major player in drug smuggling, Tochukwu hides under the cover of floor tile business. Apart from the seized drugs, other items in the consignment include maize, vegetables, palm oil, malt drinks, seasoning, noodles and cereals.
 
The SET commander, Mr Sunday Zirangey, explained that Tochukwu was arrested at the old local section of the Murtala Muhammed Airport upon arrival from Enugu. “His arrest took place simultaneously with the interception of the consignment of drugs to South Africa.
 
On arrest, he was taken to the Port to witness the search operations. The methamphetamine was said to have been hidden inside packs of Golden More Cereals and Indomie Noodles while the ephedrine was concealed among gallons of palm oil” Zirangey stated.
Chairman of the Agency, Ahmadu Giade described the arrest as another milestone achievement in Nigeria’s fight against narcotics attributing the success of the operation to diligent undercover operations.
“This operation has again validated the importance of intelligence gathering and management in drug control. The arrest of Tochukwu is a product of painstaking surveillance and another milestone success in the fight against drugs. This seizure is a confirmation that criminal investments will always go down the drain,” Giade assured.
The Head, Public Affairs,Ofoyeju Mitchell said the Abia state born suspect will soon be charged to court.

			
			Post Views: 
			199