From ODIMMEGWA JOHNPETER, Abuja
THE Honorable Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige has disclosed that repositioning Ministry of Labour and Employment to meet the challenges of unemployment and maintenance of industrial harmony in the labour sector is one of the critical agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari.
The Minister gave this indication in Abuja today when various departments in the ministry took turn to brief him and the Minister of State, James Ocholi, SAN, on their activities with a view to providing efficient labour administration in Nigeria.
Sen. Ngige affirmed government’s readiness to work with organized labour unions and employers of labour to ensure peaceful industrial milieu which he believes is pivotal to employment generation as no meaningful development can be achieved in a crisis prone environment.
In his words: “Maintenance of industrial peace and harmony and job creation is a cardinal point of this administration and in doing that, we will partner with organized labour unions and employers of labour to ensure the creation of decent employment for teeming Nigerian youths as peaceful industrial relations environment is a prerequisite for productivity and sustainable development and growth.”
The presentations brought to the fore cardinal areas of opportunities for growth and development in the Ministry for the present administration which includes:
Development of National Industrial Relations Policy for investors in Nigeria in acquiring manpower and creating the much needed employment in various sector of the economy, as well as guide against unfair labour practices and enthrone decent work agenda with its attendant national social protection floor in the world of work.
As part of its job creation,  effort, the Ministry said it will also leverage on advancement in information communication technology for resuscitation of job centers for job placement, carrier guidance and counseling, facilitating labour mobility and extending Employment Service to every State of the Federation.
Towards ensuring successful provision of social security protection to the vulnerable group, the Ministry will ensure development of National Policy on Social Security and ratification of Social Security (ILO Convention 102), as well as development of national data bank on social security and cooperative societies.
Other areas of opportunities for growth include enforcement of extant labour legislation to ensure compliance and promotion of decent work, and increase labour protection services through routine Labour Inspection Development of National Profile on Occupational Safety and Health in order to properly identify and develop the National Occupational Safety and Health system for improved participatory management among others.

			
			PV: 
			0