Share this on WhatsApp



WITH its set of interesting drive trains and abundance of technology, Audi’s newest generation of S8, latest variant of Audi A8 flagship, truly stands out as a contender in the full-size luxury sedans which have among others popular models like the Mercedes-Benz S-Class and BMW 7-series.
With a starting price of $115, 825, the new Audi A8 rises to the occasion with excellent materials, smart design and an abundance of high-tech features. Most Audis are notable for their businesslike austere design, but the A8 is decidedly luxurious in its execution, and rich wood inlays and supple leather surfaces are in abundance.
What’s more, the A8 still delivers the superb ride comfort expected of an elite luxury sedan. The big Audi’s suspension smooths out the roughest of pavement, and the cabin remains as quiet as a crypt over a variety of surfaces and at highway speeds. This desirable combination of world-class comfort and athletic handling sets the 2016 Audi A8 apart in this class
Audi’s MMI infotainment interface features an 8-inch central screen and a dial-type controller on the console surrounded by useful shortcut buttons. There’s also a small pad on which you can trace letters and numbers with your fingertip to enter addresses or search for phone numbers and music.
A well-calibrated eight-speed automatic and all-wheel drive are standard equipment on every A8, and the combination accents its surefooted feel. Its light to the touch until you make it not so via Audi Drive Select, the electronically calibrated, driver-adjustable system that governs power train, steering, and suspension feel. Drive Select gives drivers the choice of Dynamic, Comfort, Auto, or Individual modes. Overall, it’s an excellent setup that brings out the best in this big sedan, whether you’re in tight switchbacks or cruising on the highway. The only letdown is that the steering feel (or lack thereof) leaves enthusiasts much to be desired.
Serious audiophiles will want to go for the top Bang & Olufsen Advanced sound system, which has 19 speakers, including small tweeters at the front of the cabin that emerge at startup, along with more than 1400 watts of power. Also on offer in back is a rear-seat entertainment system with its own 20GB hard drive and two 10.2-inch screens, or for the classic executive car need a folding table.
The Audi A8 comes with the latest version of Audi’s MMI system, which is completely redesigned versus the previous generation. Once again, you get a rotating controller to scroll through menus, but the special new feature is MMI Touch a scratchpad that makes address or info entry much easier by simply scratching out individual letters. Steering-wheel controls also let you see an abbreviated list of options, and a new Google Maps based navigation system uses its own data connection to get live-updated mapping and routing information.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment