Kia’s all-new Sorento emerged as the winner of the coveted Public Car of the Year honor at the prestigious 2015 Middle East Car of the Year (MECOTY) Awards. The Kia Sorento received the highest number of public votes from across the region amongst all 48 nominated vehicles.
The accolade comes soon after Kia Motors’ milestone of exporting its 15 millionth vehicle in August 2015, coincidentally a 2016 Sorento with the United Arab Emirates being the destination. The Middle East is one of Kia’s most successful markets as the region contributes significantly to the brand’s global sales volumes.
Commenting on the Sorento’s Public Car of the Year award, Mr. Alex Chung, President of Kia Motors Middle East and Africa Regional Headquarters, said, “The people have spoken! The incredible vote of confidence from the Middle East customers themselves is a fantastic achievement for all of us at Kia and will inspire us all to try even harder to satisfy the exacting standards of car buyers in this region.”
“Receiving this award is a joyous milestone for Kia as it is a clear sign of our cutting-edge innovativeness as a manufacturer. The aim we had with the Sorento was to set new standards in driver comfort, aesthetics and automotive technology and we are now realizing those objectives. This award makes our efforts all the more meaningful and rewarding because it demonstrates the success and recognition we have earned in the region. It is a tremendous moment for us also because of the quality of the cars we were competing against, which shows that Kia is a pioneering leader in a market filled with exemplary brands,” Mr. Chung said after receiving the award.
MECOTY is regarded as the most prestigious award in the Middle East’s automotive industry. Leading global car brands competed in different categories including Group A (Sedan/ Executive), Group B (SUV/Truck) and Group C (Performance). The winners were determined by a judging panel comprising prominent automotive journalists from across the Middle East. Members of the jury panel represented countries such as the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Bahrain, Lebanon, Jordan, Qatar and Saudi Arabia.

			
			Post Views: 
			30