By Lanre Adesanya
The Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt.Hon Mudashiru Obasa has restated his commitment to ensuring the welfare of the Assembly staffers.
The number one man of the state’s hallowed chamber reiterated this stance during the Assembly’s Quarterly Interactive Session and Lagos Service Award Ceremony held at Lateef Jakande Hall at the Assembly.
According to Obasa,we want to commend all staff for your efforts and contributions towards the success of this institution.
“We will continue to work hard to improve the working conditions of all staff. We can dialogue on whatever you want us to do more,” he said.
The speaker, who promised to reinforce all departments and sections to function effectively, described the 8th Assembly as proactive.
He stressed that the Assembly would procure more video camera for the information department and recruit more dispatched riders aid quick delivery of correspondence.
Also speaking, Mr Wale Mogaji, the Chairman of the House Services Commission, described the Assembly staff as some of the best in the civil service of the state.
Mogaji noted that the last staff audit conducted by the commission proved to them that the Assembly has staff that could be relied upon at all times.
He assured them that the commission was doing everything within its power to ensure that the staff has the best of training, accommodation and equipment to ensure effective service delivery.
He noted that the new office complex for the staff is almost completed, while assuring them that the leadership of the House is working hard to ensure that all the demands of the staff are looked into with speed.
The Clerk of the House, Mr. Ganiyu Abiru in his keynote address said the House had done much for the civil servants working at the Assembly.
He noted that, “the Assembly has continued to improve on the condition of staff and the way we do our services, we should thank the management of the House.
“I think we are trying and we will do more to transform everyone.”
The clerk urged the staff to stop comparing themselves with the lawmakers in terms of welfare packages.
According to him, the Assembly has been training its staff regularly and will continue to cover every one.
He added that the Assembly subsidises the price of petrol for the staff at the Assembly and promised, that food would also be subsidised for staff at the canteen that would be located in the building under construction.

			
			Post Views: 
			67