Share this on WhatsApp



ATTENTION to detail is in Delta Air Lines’ DNA, so when the airline decided to refresh and enhance its on-board serviceware in Delta One and First Class, it looked to the renowned network of designers at Alessi to create a signature line featuring a modern and functional design.
Customers will see the product of Delta’s tie-up with Alessi come to life on board in 2017.
The partnership brings together the stylish and contemporary designs that made Alessi a celebrated and iconic brand with Delta’s efforts to redefine the in-flight experience through thoughtful innovation.
“We understand every aspect and detail of the travel experience matters to our customers,” said Robyn Klein, Delta’s Managing Director  On Board Services. “Working alongside the talented and creative teams at Alessi, a design house that continues to set the standard for innovative and unique design, we’ll bring to the airplane an uncompromising level of elegance and service that builds on Alessi’s renowned design inspiration.”
The enhancement to Delta’s serviceware comes as the airline continues to make evolutionary and meaningful enhancements to the experience it offers on board, including partner chef-created menus that reflect local and seasonal flavors made with fresh ingredients sourced from independent purveyors as well as a wine program curated by Delta’s Master Sommelier, Andrea Robinson.
“The key to a truly memorable in-flight service and culinary experience starts with the very product the food is served on,” said Paolo Cravedi, Alessi’s managing director of USA and Canada. “We are creating for Delta’s customers a bespoke and inspirational line of plates, glasses, flatware and service products that sets the tone for the delicious and thoughtful approach the airline has taken with their on-board food and beverage offerings.”
This is the first time Alessi’s signature modern designs will appear in flight with a major airline. Over the next several months, Delta’s service teams, in collaboration with designers from Alessi will carefully ideate, design and test the new the serviceware in flight before rolling them out in mid-2017. The products will complement cabin improvements Delta recently completed on board, including full flat-bed seating with direct aisle access in Delta One which feature Westin Heavenly Bedding, a modern and recently enhanced TUMI-designed amenity kit and skin products from Malin + Goetz. All Delta customers are treated to a wide variety of entertainment options and meticulously thought-through details in service and amenities offered throughout the aircraft.
“It has been a pleasure working with Delta on this project over the past few months and we are looking forward to developing the new product line together,” said MatteoAlessi, Alessi’s Executive Vice President, International Sales & Development. “I admire Delta’s decision to redesign the on-board experience and I’m proud that Alessi is part of that enhancement.”
Alessi has a long history of innovative, stylish and functional design. Their independent designers have created a wide range of unique products, many of which are featured in the permanent collections of museums around the world, including several at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. The Italian design group also calls famed architects like Frank Gehry, Michael Graves and Naoto Fukasawa among the most influential in its portfolio of designers.
“Design and service is about taking stock of every element, even the smallest of details, and bringing them together to make a lasting travel experience that connects with our customers,” said Klein. “Our focus on modern, tailored and elegant on-board design is part of our commitment to being thoughtful and innovative in everything we do.”
Delta’s broader brand transformation extends beyond the service and products it offers on board. The airline earlier this year teamed up with clothing designer ZacPosen to create a timeless uniform collection for the airline’s flight attendants, airport customer service agents and other employees. And recently, Delta began investing in system-wide renovations and enhancements to Delta Sky Clubs, featuring improved food and beverage options.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment