•       As Justice Ademola admonishes DSS to stop disobeying court orders
A Federal High Court in Abuja today, Friday, cleared former National Security Adviser (NSA), retired Colonel Sambo Dasuki, to travel overseas for medical services. The presiding Judge, Justice A‎demola Adeniyi, directed the Department of State Services (DSS) to allow Dasuki to travel out of the country for medical treatment.
Justice A‎demola Adeniyi, in the judgment, ordered that Sambo must be allowed to travel overseas without delay.  “Court order must be obeyed. What is wrong in the defendant travelling and coming back to face trial? Only a fit person can stand for trial and investigation. My own orders will not be flouted,” the Judge declared.
The court had on November 3, 2015, ordered that Dasuki’s international passport be released to him to enable him travel out of the country for medical treatment but the DSS flouted the court order under the guise that they needed Dasuki to testify before a committee probing arms deals handled by the office of the NSA under the Jonathan administration. Apparently, Dasuki had gone back to the court for the enforcement of the November 3 order that he be allowed to travel for three weeks to seek medical assistance.
Dasui has been facing prosecution over alleged illegal possession of firearms contrary to section 27(1) (a) (i)  of the Firearms Act, CAP F28, Law of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004.
The DSS in statement declared: “You may recall that on 16th July, 2015, the Department of State Services (DSS) carried out a search operation on properties belonging to the immediate past National Security Adviser, Mohammed Sambo Dasuki (Col/rtd), in Abuja and Sokoto. This action was necessitated by credible intelligence which linked him to acts capable of undermining national security. The search operation led to the recovery of large cache of arms and ammunition among other things and for which further investigation was conducted.”
The statement further declared: “Consequently, on Monday 24th August, 2015, he was charged to court based on evidence so far obtained, but which relates to possession of fire arms without license punishable under section 27(i)(a)(i) of the Firearms Act Cap F28 LFN 2004. This is in line with democratic practice and our avowed commitment to the rule of law, in which nobody is deemed to be above the law no matter how highly placed in the society. Accordingly, the general public will be duly informed as the matter progresses.”
Moreover, the court had ordered the confiscation of his travelling documents which was earlier seized by the DSS. The court further ordered that any of the security agencies in possession of the international and diplomatic passports of the former NSA should forthwith surrender same to the Deputy Chief Registrar of the High Court.
Justice Ademola Adeniyi, thereafter, granted Dasuki bail on self recognition after he pleaded not guilty to the criminal charge against him.

			
			PV: 
			0