By CHIOMA OBINAGWAM
FOREMOST African financial institution, Guaranty Trust Bank plc (GTBank) has reaffirmed its position as a leading provider of e-payment gateway solutions with the recent launch of its Virtual Prepaid MasterCard.
The card which is issued instantly via Internet Banking provides an added comfort for security conscious online shoppers who prefer not to use their regular debit/credit cards when making online payments.
The GTBank Virtual card has all the security features of a physical card and can be used to make both international and local online payments.
It also serves as a fall back option for customers who have forgotten or lost their card, but need to perform urgent online purchases.
The introduction of the virtual card has bridged the gap between traditional e-wallets and bank accounts by providing a low cost alternative to physical debit cards. Customers also have the option of converting the virtual card to a physical card.
Commenting on the launch, SegunAgbaje, Managing Director / Chief Executive Officer of GTBank said: “This marks another milestone in our quest to make banking more seamless for our customers. As a Bank, we remain firm on our objective to deliver value adding services that are tailored to meet the diverse needs of our ever-growing customer base by leveraging technology to make banking more convenient for all our customers.”
He further stated that “the launch of this product, attests to our commitment towards encouraging a cashless culture in our country by promoting the use of alternative payment channels for transacting both locally and internationally. Our desire to be at the frontier of banking excellence enables us to pioneer innovative products aimed at making banking more simple and attractive to the unbanked and unserved.”
GTBank is one of the biggest issuers of payment cards in Nigeria.
In Partnership with MasterCard, the Bank has rolled out all variants of GTBank MasterCard’s in all countries where it has business presence and continues to offer rewards and priceless experiences to its cardholders.
One of such promos include the POS Cash Back Promo; a loyalty reward scheme where customers can earn cash for paying for products and services on POS terminals using their MasterCard’s.
The Bank also rewards Card Holders with shopping and movie vouchers. POS Merchants are also rewarded with several incentives to encourage patronage of the Bank’s POS terminals.

			
			PV: 
			0