By EDIALE KINGSLEY
IT’S often said that necessity is the mother of invention. That axiom took a further passionate stretch at the recently held Teens ‘ Science and Arts Fair 2015. The students of Ifesowapo Aboru Senior Secondary School got triggered to embark on a life saving invention when they lost their fellow student sometime in July this year to flood and blocked drainage system. Their science team invented and exhibited a combustor device that transforms wastes to wealth. Motivated by the tragic story, the team initiated a mission that sees them picking up trash and plastic materials from the drainage and gutters as raw materials for the production of herbicides and liquid fuel.
This first of its kinds program for the believers love word ministry, Teens’ science and Arts Fair took place on Saturday November 7th, at the Lagoon Restaurant, Ozumba Mbadiwe, Victoria Island. Organized by Christ Embassy Church Lagos Zone 5 as part of the Reach Out Nigeria Campaign activities to commemorate Nigeria’s 55th independence anniversary. In a bid to affect the lives of the young lads by giving them a platform to express their innate abilities and dexterity towards innovation in the areas of science and arts, the organizers engaged the Lagos State Ministry of Science and Technology in partnership with seasoned directors of arts and design in screening thousands of young inventors from school-to-school. From the thousands of available talents the judges were able to attract 115 entries from which 65 made it to the finalists.
There were Startups, Apps, Paintings, Bids, Textiles, Crafts, Robotic Inventions, Manufacturing Setup, Developmental Inventions, Agricultural Appliances and more exhibited as original works of the student finalist and the judges had tough job in their hands deciding the winners of the available prizes. The mouth watering prizes include N100,000 for an individual winner, N750,000 for individuals in a group and N500,000 for the school. There were also scholarships in the form of discounted tuition fees into Lancaster University, Ghana.
The Science Prize went to the students of Abibat Mogaji Millennium Senior Secondary School, Iloro Agege. They showcased a Mobile Multi-purpose recycling Machine Powered by Cow dung. The project leader who is a 15-year old SS2 student and 16-year old Abdulbasit Sheidu of same class jointly presented their work to the judges. “We discovered that water pollution has been the major problem in our Country because and as such decided to design a machine that can convert the bio-degradable waste called Cow dung and with our crafted engine it enables our invention to produce three valuable products called methane gas, fertilizer and electricity using anaerobic digestion” the duo presented, as there Chemistry Teacher Mr. Odusanya watched from a corner. They quickly backed their theory with practical and the judges were astounded to see the exercise generate electricity. They were the deserved winner of the N1million naira cash prize.
The Art Prize of N500, 000 went to the students of Kuramo Senior Secondary School who presented beautiful beads.
One of the notable presentations at the event were that of Lagos City Senior College Sabo, Yaba, Lagos presented their science project tagged Multipurpose/Eco-friendly Organic polish and Ink. The SS2 and SS1 team of ages 15 and 13 years old named Allename Anthony, Popoola Stephen and Onyemah took turns to wow the judges with the demonstrative presentation of their LACICOYA science think-thank club project.  With eight thousand naira the team was able to construct a tube mixer made from polished aluminum metal with which they use to manufacture shoe polish and ink.
“We have created a machine and also used the machine to produce unique quality shoe polish, furniture spray and pen or marker ink. These are all made from organic materials readily available in our environment” they explained.  The thrilled judges noted the importance of such invention, especially in the areas of job creation and entrepreneurship.
Imagine riding on a static bicycle that separates corn seeds from the cob on one end while emitting hot air that systematically roasts corns from the other end.  That was another impressive invention from Government Senior College aptly called Manual Machine For Shelling and roasting of Maize.
Some of the other schools that participated are; JDC college who presented their works in Ankara shoes and bags, Antlantic Hall School showcased their cake and fruit basket works, New Era Girl’s Senior Secondary School exhibited their Color-Sorter-Robot and Automated Power management robot, Victoria Island Secondary School also demonstrated how the Pyrolitic Reactor Solar Cooker .
The next time you visit your grand mum in the village you may want to replace her firewood cooking stove with a Solar Cooker exhibited at the maiden edition of Teens’ Science and Art Fair.

			
			PV: 
			0