Share this on WhatsApp



By ADEDEJI FAKOREDE
FUTURE mobile services will be grouped around video services and services based on the massive use of M2M devices in most industries and consumers’ households.
The desired environmentwill require innovation and broader vision in the strategic management of QoS. Strategies for challenging the degradation of QoS situations should be managed by Regulators by using techniques such as: Addressing the questions of congestion caused by traffic overflow by identifying the bottlenecks, Equipment type/IPv6 compliance and Maintaining Network equipment to avoid delays which in turn are caused by poor servicing and maintenance network equipment, low performance in large loads and loss due to retransmission of lost packets. Also, a conceptual mapping between QoS and QoE is proposed to provide a combined view of network QoS and client’s experience so as to provide better access (high bandwidth, QoS) , to be able to efficiently carry different services and to integrate mobile and fixed architectures and services. Special attention should be paid to QoS methodologies and algorithms that link network parameters to the QoS experienced by users. For defining QoS levels, users’ requirements for different applications and services should also be analyzed.
The announcing of all these information should be conducted by independent authorities and must be supervised by regulators to guarantee credibility and transparency. In addition, future QoS regulation should be technology neutral in order to support market development. A problem may arise in the context of who should bear the costs of providing neutrality.
The gains achieved as a result of the massive explosion of telecommunication must be fed back into the network infrastructures in the form of regulated-mandatory re-investments to match the capacity and sustain modernization. Going forward NCC should work out an agreeable re-investment target and enforce implementation by ISPs. In the near future, the wireless mobile communication and Internet convergence of various services with different quality of service (QoS) requirements are expected as well as a drastic increase in users’ demands for new QoS-guaranteed services. Customer relationship relating to QoS parameters such as metering, Call-Centre optimization, charging and billing should be given special attention considering customers’ sensitivity to the charging and billing principally due to the fact that the charging principles are usually complex and insufficiently familiar to users. Network/service (N/S) management by the customer is an important aspect as it relates to the interaction between the customer and the network or services.
Since QoS regulation is one of the key issues in the future Internet regulatory framework, user behavior is expected to play a significant role in QoS management, unlike the current Internet QoS regulation which is mainly technology centric. Satisfying users’ service requirements and expectations are the most difficult challenge in the transition to the new network environment while network performance is the most important parameter for measurement of quality of service. The poor performance of a telecom network would induce customer complaints and faults, thereby leading to customer dissatisfaction towards the operator.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment