Share this on WhatsApp



The Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), has completed safety assessment and design of six ICAO approved PBN regional routes that will enhance regional connectivity within the AFI region.
These routes include a new airway linking Nairobi in Kenya direct to Abuja in Nigeria (UT475); another linking Bangui in Central African Republic (CAR) direct to Tamale in Ghana (UT458) and a Europe direct route from Abuja in Nigeria to Tamaransset in Algeria (UT416).
Others include an international route from Garoa in Cameroun to Niamey in NigerRepublic through Kano in Nigeria (UT459); Lagos Nigeria direct to Guiney Conakry (467) and Oxilo in Cameroun direct to Lagos in Nigeria (UT457).
The Managing Director of the agency, Engr. Ibrahim Abdulsalam, said these new routes, which shall become operational on the AIRAC date of 15th October 2015, have been published worldwide through the Nigerian AIP Supplement issued by NAMA.
While counting the gains of the new regional routes to include enhanced airspace capacity utilization and reduced flight times, Abdulsalam expressed confidence that these new routes would also boost regional integration, co-operation and trade within the sub-region.
In a new development towards ensuring security of all the navigational equipment, the agency has advocated a coordinated and harmonious operational synergy with the Nigeria Police in order to enhance the security and safety of Air Traffic Management/Communication, Navigation and Surveillance infrastructure deployed across airports in the country.
Speaking while receiving the Commissioner of Police, Airport Command, Mrs Victoria N. Menta, who led a high-powered delegation of the force to the agency’s headquarters in Lagos, the Managing Director, Engr. Ibrahim Abdulsalam noted that a close synergy and collaboration with the Nigeria Police Force as well as other security agencies would ensure that the nation’s high-tech Air Traffic Management facilities remain safe and secure for effective and seamless flight operations in the country.
While congratulating Mrs Menta on her new posting, Abdulsalam appreciated the Airport Police Command for the maintenance of law and order as well as security of infrastructure within the nation’s airports, stressing that “NAMA would continue to promote operational harmony and synergy among aviation and security agencies at the nation’s airports as this would make for safe, efficient and effective service delivery.”
In her remarks, Mrs Menta commended NAMA for maintaining safety of air navigation in the country, stressing that their visit to the agency was to ensure that the Airport Police Command has direct interface with all stakeholders in the sector where issues of mutual interest would be addressed. 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment