Share this on WhatsApp



The trouble with Peter Obi is that he thinks that he is cleverer than everyone else. He maintains a bland and
 colourless surface that conceals a grandiose interior. He  talks with the voice of a woman in a labour but carries a  heart of stone. He maintains a well cultivated religious  outlook but his soul is the engine room of demons. The  former governor of Anambra State reminds me of a luscious  apple with a large maggot neatly embedded in its middle. So,  can we really blame those who mistake him for a good man?  
  The trouble with Peter Obi is that he believes that no  one else is smart enough to see through him; that he remains
 opaque and enigmatic to people around him. He immerses  himself in so many devious games of intrigue and subterfuge
 – revealing only a side of him that he wants  to share with the public; a side of him that seems pleasant and kind. But
beneath the surface lies a vicious  puff adder. The side that stirs awake in the dead of the  night to order a contractor to the Governor’s Lodge and  demand a kickback for jobs awarded in broad day light. The  disingenuous side that lays bobby- traps for his successor  with the eleventh hour award of multiple contracts without  any provisioning.
 The trouble with Peter Obi is not just that he thinks  that he could deceive the priests and the religious in  Anambra State after forcing a wedge between the denominations and setting the house of God on fire by  instigating bitter rivalries between God’s servants. No.
 It is that Peter thinks that the rest of us would believe  his innocence once he is decorated with high religious
 titles and maintains the well-worn attitudes of false  religion. Meanwhile, the landscape is still reeling from the
 many horrors of his my-church-is-better-than-your-church  policy which polarised brothers and split time-honoured
 friendships. If Peter does not consider us all fickle and  thoughtless he wouldn’t have left the Governor’s Lodge,
 Amawbia, still asking whether Anambra is cursed. He would  have accepted that he is the curse himself; the very pox
 that has continued to corrode Anambra State even after his  exit from power.
 The other trouble with Peter Obi is that he believes  that after stealing Anambra State blind, he could just
 rustle up a ridiculous handover note and force-feed his  voodoo accounting principles on the rest of us and we would
 lap it all up without question and remain eternally grateful  that we have been touched by an angel. What a cheek! Peter
 thinks that because he spent all his years in Nsukka,  “peddling stuff” rather than studying philosophy, we are
 all addle-headed like him and would not remember or  understand that in any accounting process, there are assets
 and liabilities as well as credit and debit. So, he  manufactured a aughable handover note that is full of dead
 bodies and believes that by shouting about it from the  rooftops, our attention would be diverted from him while he
 enjoys his loot in absolute peace. Worse still, he believes  that his spin doctors; Val Obienyem and Mazi Odera have all
 the cunning and firepower to weave believable stories that  would mislead probing eyes. So, he directed them to shout
 about his phoney N75bn anytime Governor Obiano’s  performance seems to attract a positive reaction and hijack
 the encomium for the little god of Agulu.
 Unfortunately, in his blind pursuit of vendetta, he  fails to realise that many people are aware that no one in
 his right mind would withhold or divert an applause meant  for a governor who has proved himself with a resounding
 performance in one and a half years. He forgot that sooner  than later, people would begin to wonder if the great
 achievements they are seeing all over Anambra State are  still the products of the past administration which
 “democratised poverty” with its famed “supermarket”  knowledge of economics. They would begin to ask questions
 about all the local government allocations in eight years  and the huge security votes that have now been ploughed into
 building poorly run shopping malls in Abuja and elsewhere.
 People would also ask questions about the blatant rape of  Anambra State, the award of contracts without due process,
 the dubious collaborations with South African businessmen  and the criminal neglect of Awka, the state capital, for so
 many years. Naturally, they would shudder at the utter lack  of big ideas in eight years and the disastrous entry into
 national politics that cost Goodluck Jonathan a  well-deserved second term and threw Ndigbo into a political
 evil forest. Of course they would remember that Chukwuma  Soludo had warned Jonathan of the inevitable consequences of  having Peter as his adviser. But Jonathan did not pay  attention. He had hoped that if Jesus had told Peter,
 “Upon this Rock will I build my church…,” then, he too  could build his second term hopes on the Peter of Agulu.
 Now, it has dawned on Goodluck Jonathan that Obi is a  different kind of Peter; in fact, that this Peter is no ROCK
 at all! 
  The real trouble with Peter Obi is that he takes  himself too seriously. Peter believes that his “clever”
 politics of yester years is still valid today. So, he goes  around visiting schools that he had starved of funds as a
 two-term governor, handing out miserable N1m cheques while  smiling impishly to cameras and hugging the widows left
 behind by elder statesmen whose medical bills he had refused  to pay while they struggled for life and making a meal of
 the photo opportunities. And funnily, he believes that we  are all conned into accepting this moth-eaten image of a
 squeaky clean “St. Peter.”
 The niggling trouble with Peter Obi is that he does not  understand that you do not preserve a legacy by fighting for
 them or constantly reminding the people about them. No. Once  we struggle to preserve a legacy, it takes something away  from it. Legacies are like monuments embedded in memory.
 They are not easily washed away by the vagaries of time.  They continue to announce themselves through the ages by the  sheer force of their enduring value. A great legacy does not  need the hagiographic skills of Val Obienyem or the praise songs of Mazi Odera. A legacy endures in the very lives of  the people that it exists to serve. So, in striving to
 preserve the roads he built and the cheques he handed to  Mission Schools and hospitals, Peter Obi is unwittingly
 calling attention to his lack of signature projects; his  lack of a legacy. And the import of all this is not lost on
 us. 
 In the end, the actual tragedy of Peter Obi is the fact  that he has chosen to write his name in the dark chapters of
 history. And no one should save him from his destiny. It is  the road he chose to travel and the cobwebs of infamy are
 waiting to engulf him as he journeys.
  Obiora Aghadinuno
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment