The intensification of police patrol within Lagos metropolis to curb all forms of criminality in the state, has paid off as operatives of Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Lagos State Police Command, has apprehended, one Musa Inusa, (32) at Costain area, for allegedly involved in stealing bridge rails across the state.
Musa, who is a member of a 3-man syndicate were on the 14th September, 2015 about 02: 30am.
The Commander of RRS, Assistant Commissioner of Police, ACP Olatunji Disu, said that his men intercepted the suspect and his gang members while carting away the stolen railings.
According to him, “On the fateful midnight, the Policemen from RRS on routine patrol at Costain by National Art Theatre, intercepted three men, one was pushing a cart with ten-cut-to-size aluminum bridge rails and the other two were coming behind him.
On sighting the police, two of the suspects, Abdullahi and Ibrahim bolted away and Musa was arrested. “Upon completion of our preliminary investigation, the suspect and his gang members were found  to specialized at cutting down the rails of Highway Bridges which are meant to save lives when eventualities occur on the highway within the metropolis”, Disu affirmed.
He noted that efforts are still on to apprehend the other two men, Ibrahim and Abdullahi who fled the dragnet of the police.
Confirming the suspect making a confessional statement to the Police, said that his group, after they saw  the bridge railings falling, usually cut them into pieces and sizes before selling the aluminum to their ready-made buyers at Ijora and Oyingbo markets respectively.
Musa said, “I am one of the 3-man syndicate who have been stealing the bridge rails across the state. We have our own market where we sell the stolen rails. I am a native of Pagee local Government Area in Kano State where my parents live at the moment. When I got to Lagos in 2010 to search for means of livelihood, all my efforts to secure job was fruitless.
“It was Ibrahim who introduced this robbery act to me. The midnight I was arrested, Ibrahim and Abdullahi and I went to Costain by National Art Theatre and stole ten pieces of Aluminum bridge rails. Suddenly, on our way home, we were intercepted by the RRS Team.
“While Ibrahim and Abdullahi took to their heels, I was apprehended with the cart containing the stolen aluminum’’, the suspect said in his confessional statement.
The suspect who said he does not have a roof over his head, revealed that they have two business men who usually buy the stolen goods from them. “We always sell one pole of bridge rail to one Alhaji Ibrahim at Ijora at the rate of N7, 000 and to another man simply identified as Baba Supo at Oyingbo. My own job is to convey the stolen items to the buyers while the duo of Abdullahi and Ibrahim do the sawing and cutting”, he revealed.
The suspect has been transferred to Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) for a further investigation. 
The Lagos State Police Public Relation Officer (Joe Offor) who confirmed the arrest of the suspect said the suspect has been transferred to Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) for further investigation and prosecution.

			
			Post Views: 
			162