Share this on WhatsApp



Communications Trends Limited, Nigeria’s largest cable TV operator has flagged off its ‘one home one decoder’ campaign. This campaign aims at ensuring that every home in Nigeria   enjoys the full benefits of owning a CTL multi-channel decoder. The campaign which kicked off with fanfare in Port Harcourt on the 31st of August is scheduled to spread to nine Nigerian cities.
CTL TV services are currently running in nine Nigerian cities including; Port Harcourt, Abuja, Owerri , Enugu, Umuahia, Uyo, Warri, Benin,  Onitsha .The ongoing promo is designed to make CTL decoders available to more homes within these areas of coverage and commence the process of delivering its services nationwide.
According to the COO of The Udemba Group, owners of CTL,  Mr OfemEkapong, while declaring the campaign open  , ‘the One Home One Decoder campaign is the first step in the corporate mission of putting CTL decoders in at least 20 million homes nationwide by 2018’. Mr Ofem stressed the readiness of Nigerians to embrace the digitization switch over and the capacity of CTL to meet the needs of the Nigerian consumer in the evolving broadcast landscape.
CTL, Africa’s largest MMDS terrestrial multi-channel platformwas established in 1994 to provide affordable Pay TVservices to Nigerians.  According to the Corporate Communications manager of the Group, Mr James Atah,  CTL is popular amongst Nigerians for its  variety of quality channels and viewer options and particularly because it is home to the indigenous  Nollywood Channel. Nollywood is a general entertainment channel designed to showcase the rich culture, tradition, tourism, fashion and lifestyle of Africans to its viewers.  The channel is CTL’s flagship and oldest African channel dedicated to showcasing exclusive content from the Nigerian movie industry to its international audience.Itwas launched in 2003 as Nollywood Movies and became Africa’s first 24/7 movie channel and redefined the Nigerian Nollywood Movie Industry.
Mr Atah noted that the NOLLYWOOD CHANNEL is not only available to CTL subscribers in the nine cities but to every home in Sub –Sahara Africa Free to Air.through its parent satellite TV, Trend TV.  Trend TVis a leading provider of DTH Multichannel satellite digital television services in Africa with a satellite footprint covering all 53 sub-Sahara African countries.  It was launched in 2003 as the first Nigerian owned DTH platform on a transponder neighbourhood with more than 40 FTA channels.
CTL provides a mix of top quality local and foreign entertainment programmes andengaging informative and educative packages for all categories of viewers.  To meet the objectives of the campaign, CTL decoders are designed to be affordable and easy to install at home and dealership and customer care services have been boosted across the country to meet the challenges of the expected rise in volume of subscribers.  CTL subscribers across the country currently enjoy one of the best and most affordable Pay-Tv services in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment