By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
The President, Nigeria Labour Congress, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, on Thursday in Abuja urged the federal government to make capital punishment as part of the punitive measures against corrupt persons in Nigeria.
He made this call while presenting a petition containing the demands of the organized labour to the Chairman, Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) Ibrahim Lamorde for onward delivery to President Mohammedu Buhari.
Comrade Ayuba Wabba, added that the rally was in support of the anti- corruption posture of the Muhammadu Buhari administration and the EFCC.
“We are demanding good governance, accountability and transparency, so that we can have enough to cater for the nation’s development,” he said.
“We urge you to recover all stolen Nigerian moneys and properties. Our prayer is that the laws must be reviewed to make penalty for offenders to include capital punishment. We need to stand in unison and fight this evil called corruption. We must kill it before it kills us all.’’ 
The Nigeria Labour movement during a rally, had thrown its weight behind Lamorde, Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, {EFCC}, expressing confidence in the anti-graft agency boss’ competence and commitment to the fight against corruption in Nigeria.
Affiliates of the two labour centre, the Nigeria Labour Congress and the Trade Union Congress, had a stopover at the Commission’s headquarters as part of an anti-corruption rally in Abuja, and urged Lamorde not to be distracted by recent attacks from corrupt elements who are hell-bent on undermining the EFCC’s efforts to tackle humongous corruption in Nigeria. 
Led by Issa Aremu, Vice President of the NLC, urged Lamorde not to be discouraged by the recent attacks by corrupt elements who are jittery about the Commission’s activities. 
“I remember President Muhammadu Buhari saying that, if we don’t fight corruption, it will kill us.  We are here today to strengthen the work of EFCC. As a matter of fact, over the years, EFCC has done its best. As we all know, if you fight corruption, it fights back. I know in recent times, corruption seems to be fighting back. I can recollect that in 2003 when the ICPC, under Justice Mustapha Akanbi was doing a very good job to fight corruption, the National Assembly, suddenly, watered down the system. 
Responding, Lamorde, stated that the war against corruption would be fought with relentless vigour. “I want to assure you that we are doing our best and will continue to do what we are doing, particularly as all the trade unions are behind us. I truly agree that the time is ripe for all Nigerians to speak with one voice because corruption has continued to slow down the pace of development in our country. We cannot afford to suffer this anymore. Other countries that gained independence about the time Nigeria did are far ahead of us today”, Lamorde said.
Similar rally was also held in Kano, where the Head of Northwest Zonal Operation of the EFCC, Ishaq Salihu urged organized labour to partner with the EFCC to carry out its mandate by acting as whistle blowers in any area where they find acts of corruption being perpetrated.

			
			PV: 
			0