By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
Another grand breaking recovery was made by Nigerian military of food meant to be supplied to Boko Haram insurgents at Damboa axis around Azir-Wajiroko road, Borno State arresting 33 of them.
Making this known, the Director, Army Public Relations, Colonel Sani Kukasheka Usman said in Abuja on Wednesday that the “intensive patrols and vigilance of troops yielded positive results with the arrest of 33 suspected food suppliers to the Boko Haram terrorists in Damboa axis around Azir-Wajiroko road, Borno State.
He said, “The 33 suspected Boko Haram accomplices were arrested with large quantity of food stuffs meant for Boko Haram terrorists at Korode. Nine of the 33 suspects are from Korode, five from Auma, 10 from Geargube, four from Kausautaya, four from Bulbul and one from Dolomi villages.
Col Usman explained that some of the suspects claimed to be traders, noting that they denied buying and selling food items to the terrorists. He added that military intelligence is still carrying out interrogation to further unravel the level of involvement of the suspects. 
In a related development, troops during clearance operations of Boko Haram hideouts, have discovered and successfully destroyed Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) planted by Boko Haram terrorists at Sandia village along Korode road.
Also, he pointed out that more men, women and children were rescued from the terrorists at Buduwa area along Bama axis. The rescued persons were part of those abducted by Boko Haram terrorists at Buduwa general area in Bama Local Government Area of Borno State which was earlier occupied by the terrorists.
It should be noted that the Nigerian Army is trying hard to ensure safety of the rescued persons but not taking anything for granted as some of them are suspected terrorists.
It would be recalled that President Mohammed Buhari has dropped the hint in France on Tuesday that Nigerian government has started negotiation process with Boko Haram that would likely see to the release of the abducted Chibok Secondary School girls held for over 500 days now. How long the negotiation will go remain to be desired.