By Nwadike Ugochukwu
Port Harcourt
Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, has declared that there is an ungodly grand conspiracy to take over the state, insisting that God will disappoint the evil conspirators.
Speaking at the Rivers State PDP Secretariat on Thursday in Port Harcourt during the commissioning of the ultra modern multipurpose hall and one day seminar for party officials and government functionaries, Governor Wike told Rivers people to look beyond him to stop the evil wind of enslavement being propagated by the conspirators.
Wike’s comments came against the backdrop of an earlier boast by national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Chief John Odigie-Oyegun that the party was resolved to take over Rivers and Akwa Ibom states through the courts.
The governor  said  that anyone detailed  by the conspiring forces to rig election  in  the  State would  face dire consequences as Rivers people will never be enslaved  by political  groups only interested  in  stealing  her resources.
“There is a grand conspiracy to take over Rivers State for reasons that are known to all of us. But God will disappoint them. I pity any INEC Officer who will want to be funny. Such an officer should be prepared for the consequences.
“We will use the National Assembly re-run elections to prove to the world that these unpopular politicians have been lying about Rivers State all this while. If you know anyone planning to rig the Rivers State National Assembly re-run elections tell him to have a rethink.
“You cannot rig in a place where you are not popular.  Those planning to rig for pecuniary reasons are not popular in this state. We shall return all our National Assembly members. “.
Speaking further: “I call on Mr President to use the National Assembly to institute the change he has talked about with the National Assembly elections. Rivers State is a PDP state and we cannot be shaken in this state because the party is deeply rooted.  We cannot be intimidated with the use of soldiers and policemen during any election.”
The Governor urged party leaders to remain resolute in their resolve to challenge the forces of darkness, adding that strong  Mobilization  of the  people  across the  state should  be intensified to resist those being used against the interest of the state.
He called for extended political consultation between party officials and government officials for better service delivery in the state.
While preaching party discipline at all levels, he called on the party to continue to reinvent itself for the good of the people.
In his remarks, Former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon.  Austin Opara commended Governor Wike for leaving up to his campaign promises by delivering democracy dividends across the state.
Rivers State Chairman of the PDP, Bro Felix Obuah stated that the party is pleased with the performance of Governor Wike whom he said will completely transform the state at the expiration of his first term in 2019.
The one day seminar was attended by party officials, government functionaries and academics.