ARSENAL and Manchester City, the two current favourites for the EPL title this season are set for battle on Monday evening, as the Gunners host the latter in north London.
It promises to be an intriguing tussle between two talented teams.
The Gunners will fancy their chances, and are currently on one of their high-flying spells of form, having defeated both Olympiakos and Aston Villa in the last week or so.
City continue to look flawed, and until captain Vincent Kompany returns to the heart of their defence, they will look susceptible at the back.
A win for Arsene Wenger’s side would put them four points clear of Manuel Pellegrini’s men, and would arguably make them favourites to lift the Premier League trophy come May.
Mezut Ozil once cut a figure of derision in his first one and half season at the Emirates but has been wowing his critics since the beginning of the season. His awesome passing and vision has taken his superhuman assists to 13 in 15 games this season and will once again be crucial to the Gunners’ resolve to replicate the heart-rendering defeat of the Citizens at the Etihad last season.
Though quite a sizable number of their top stars are still out with injuries but the North London club have surprisingly maintained their immense start to the season but the expected absence of Luis Sanchez from the starting line could be a key factor in determining the outcome of the encounter.
Manchester City on their own despite being rated as the most balanced side in the league haven’t exactly been helping their cause for another title with their struggles on the road. A win at the Emirates could set the tone for a new resolve.
And that would be greatly aided by the return of Sergio Agueiro to the matchday squad. He trained all week and looked primed to return into the hunt for goals.
Arsenal have their central defensive pair of Per Mertersacker and Lauren Koscielny to try and keep the lethal Argentine in check but same cannot be said of Kompany whose absence from the heart of the Citizens’s defence havs been a source of major concern for weeks now.

			
			PV: 
			0