By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
The foray of kidnaps and assassination attempts in the Niger Delta is assuming a monumental dimension with the escape last night of the Special Adviser, Media and Publicity Jerry Needam
Needam, who is the media aide to the Rivers state Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), nearly kissed death in the early hours ofTuesday, as he escaped a kidnap and assassination attempt.
At the end of a gun duel that ensue between the police and assailant, three of the gallant Police officers, including an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) lost their lives while two other Police officers and Mr. Needam’s security guard, who suffered serious gun shots are now receiving treatment at a private hospital in Port Harcourt.
The incident was said to have happened at his residence in Port Harcourt, during which scores of armed men engaged the Police in a fierce gun battle, leaving the compound, rooms and vehicles riddled with bullets.
National Daily learnt Tuesday’s failed attempt on his life was the “third” in a “highly organized; politically motivated plot on his life.”
The daredevil men were reported to have stormed his residence in the wee hours of Tuesday morning and shot sporadically to gain entrance into the compound.
“During the incident which lasted for over 2 hours, Mr. Needam put a distress call to the Police who promptly arrived his residence and engaged the gun men in a fierce gun battle,” a source added.
Needam, visibly shocked from the ripples said the “mastermind of the kidnap and assassination attempt are his political opponents who desperately want him silenced following his strong political views and his penchant for  with the Rivers State Commissioner of Police, Musa Kimo, on the incident expresses confidence in the ability of the Command to investigate the matter and fish out those behind the assassination attempt on his life and entire household.
While commending the prompt response of the Police to the distress call and their demonstration of professionalism in the encounter with the heavily armed assassins, the PDP Media Aide sympathizes with the Police command and the families of the deceased policemen, praying that God would give them the fortitude to bear the loss of their beloved bread winners.
Efforts to reach the Rivers state Police spokesperson failed as he could not be reached on phone. However, when the Force Public Relations Officer, ACP Olabisi Kolawole was contacted she said that the Police in Rivers state is investigating the incident and that they will feed the Force headquarters back about the outcome in due course


			
			Post Views: 
			62