By Lanre Adesanya
The Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa has restated the poise of the legislature to collaborate with the United States of America in all spheres.
He revealed this stance while playing host to the US legislator who paid the house a courtesy call yesterday.
The visiting Senator Donzella James represents Metropolitan Atlanta’s 35th District of Georgia.
The Speaker stated that members of the Assembly have visited Atlanta, Georgia severally given the comely ambience the city which made it a second home to him and his colleagues.
He reiterated that Nigeria has a lot to learn from the United States, which has a matured democracy than that of Nigeria that is less than 20 years old.
“We believe in participatory democracy in Nigeria and freedom of speech is recognised in our country. We are ready to work with you in all areas and we will continue to visit your country and ensure that the closeness between Nigeria and America is strengthened,” he said.
Earlier in her address, Senator Donzella James, who is a member of the US Senate Committee on Economic Development, Tourism as well Education/Youth Committee revealed that she has been to Nigeria on many occasions and that she has hosted many lawmakers from Nigeria in the United States.
While acknowledging that Nigeria has many precious resources, she suggested that Lagos and the US should work together as she said that they both have many things in common.
“I feel so proud to be here, if there is anything you want me to do to assist your state, I will be willing to support you. Agriculture is number in the US, especially poultry and we are willing to train your people.
“I would love to see you in Atlanta Georgia for exchange programmes. We do a lot of that with other states in Nigeria and we do exchange programmes for students and others. I also have many Nigerians as my personal staff,” she said.
The woman, who has sponsored and co-sponsored 400 pieces of legislation, told the lawmakers that she was moved to tears, when she visited the Badagry Museum in Lagos the previous day, adding that she was convinced that she was from Nigeria.
Senator James was accompanied on the visit by her Chief of Staff, Ms. Queen Blessing Ituah,  APC State Chairman in Pennsylvania,  Hon. Idris Oluwafemi Rufus and Dr. Eugen Ituah.

			
			PV: 
			0