From EbenEnasco Kingsley, Benin City

As the countdown to the Edo state 2016 governorship race draws closer, no fewer than nine aspirants have emerged on the All Progressive Congress, APC, platform.
This development has thrown the party into a quagmire as none of the aspirants is prepared to step down for one another.
Notable among the aspirants, according to a National Daily investigation, are the incumbent Deputy Governor of the state, Dr Pius Odubu, Prof. Osarhiemen Osunbor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, the chairman of the economic team of Edo state government, Oshiomhole’s Works Commissioner and political son,Bar. Osarodion Ogie, former Minister of State,Works, Dr Chris Ogiemwonyi, Kenneth Imasuagbon (Rice man), Gen. Charles Airhiavbere ,Dr. Don Pedro Obaseki, Pharmacist Chris Iyare, and Bar. Omo- Erhabor Casley.
It is further learnt that of the lot, Obaseki, described by political observers as more of a technocrat than a politician, appears to be the candidate endorsed by the incumbent Governor Adams Oshiomhole.
The same candidate, our investigation, revealed, has the backing of Africa’s richest man and business mogul of the northern extraction, AlhajiAlikoDangote, who has been fingered as the likely sponsor of his campaigns when the time comes.
The alleged choice of Obaseki as the favoured candidate of the incumbent state chief executive, has not gone down well with many APC faithfuls and have vowed to work against him if eventually he is imposed as a candidate on the party.
The aspirants are expected to have a stiff opposition from the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) candidates who are poised to snatch power by all means from the ruling party, the APC.
It was learnt that the leaders were said to have urged members toaccept the governor’s decision which have not gone down well withother aspirants who have reportedly resolved to plot and frustrate hisemergence at the primaries.
However,this notwithstanding, leaders of PDP in the state,includingpolitical  heavyweights like former PDP Board of Trustees (BOT)Chairman, Chief Tony Anenih; the Igbinedion political family, formerMinister of Foreign Affairs, Chief Tom Ikimi, among others, have vowedthat PDP is still very strong in Edo State and must return to power.
Besides the strength of the party in the state, sources said Anenih,the Igbinedions and Ikimi may have taken the 2016, governorshipcontest in the state as a continuation of the personal politicalbattles they have fought Oshiomhole’s administration in the past sevenyears.
It would be recalled that the struggle for the political soul of EdoState between the Igbinedion’s political structure and that ofOshiomhole has continued underground sevenyears after the Igbinedions were upstaged.
However,APC’s dominance of the politics of the state since thenotwithstanding, political activists and insiders in the state insistthe party is still very much entrenched and determined to return topower.
More aptly,one would have expected the party to allow aspirants go toopen field and conduct free elections to try their popularity andintegrity to avoid banana pills that could cause lurid sunset for itsmembers as the governors time gradually erodes.


			
			Post Views: 
			117