Share this on WhatsApp



The Sterling Bank Plc on Friday said it had received certificate in recognition of its attainment of Best Service Management Standards and Global Best Practices.
This is contained in a statement by Mr Shina Atilola, the bank’s Group Head, Strategy and Communications in Lagos.
The statement said the TCIC ISO 2000-1 certification received by the bank was sequel to its compliance to Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN’s) roadmap for technology departments in banks.
“This certification came about after an audit was conducted on the bank to review our people and practices.
“The standard stipulates a certain level of competence for IT (Information Technology) staff and in order to meet this standard, several staff within our technology group undertook trainings and certification examinations.
“In achieving this feat, the bank implemented 13 processes and also created an IT service management unit of which the IT service desk is an important component,” it said.
The statement said the 13 processes were capacity management; service continuity and availability management; service level management; service reporting; information security management, budgeting and accounting for services.
Others are release and deployment management; configuration management; change management; business relationship management; supplier management, incident and request fulfillment management and problem management.
It quoted Atilola as saying the bank was already reviewing other components spelt out in the roadmap for competence for information technology.
It added that the bank would continue to improve on service delivery.
The statement also said that the standard required was equally consistent with the bank’s aspiration of being data-led which guided decision making.
National Daily reports that TCIC Global Certification Ltd. is a management system certification independent audit/assessment accredited training provider founded in 2003.
The company provides the certification audit of the management system, independent audit/assessment services, the personnel certification/ registration and the accredited training providers alongside other value-added service for the clients.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment