After months of laying siege at the residence of Colonel Sambo Dasuki (rtd), National Security Adviser to former President Goodluck Jonathan, thus, placing him under house arrest, the Department of State Service (DSS), finally, arrested Dasuki this Tuesday. Dasuki has been under house arrest despite court orders granting him permission to travel overseas for medical attention.
There was no official reason by the DSS for the arrest this Tuesday morning. However, the arrest follows the action of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) which arrested 10 aides who worked with Dasuki.
Those arrested were identified to include Shuaibu Salisu, who was Mr. Dasuki’s Director of Finance; a staff of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Aminu Baba Kusa, fondly called “ABK”; a former General Executive Director at the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), and Mr. Kusa’s son, Mohammed Baba-Kusa.
Others include former top officials of the NSA being held in connection with the arms contract scandal; they are Abba M.T. Usman, Evegny Kundaev, Attahiru Maccido, Salisa Umar Garu, Oyinmiebl Bribena, Olukoya Olusegun Godwin, and Olukayode Raimi. They are being investigated on charges ranging from criminal conspiracy, theft, forgery, the diversion of public funds, to money laundering and are reportedly being held in separate cells.
The arrest was said to be connected with the ongoing investigation of a $2 billion weapons contract scandal involving Dasuki.
A former Minister of State for Finance, Ambassador Bashir Yuguda, was disclosed to have been arrested on Monday.  “The former minister was arrested at about 4.00pm on Monday and operatives of the EFCC are currently interrogating him at headquarters in Abuja,” Wilson Uwujaren, EFCC spokesman, had admitted.
It was indicated that Yuguda’s arrest was in connection with alleged payment of large sums of money relating to purchase of arms by the office of the NSA to his private account, which the former minister could not account for.
Also in custody over the arms procurement deals are Sagir Bafarawa, the son of former Sokoto Governor, Attahiru Bafarawa, and Abbah Mohammed, the son of a former Minister of Defence and ex-National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Haliru Mohammed.
Sagir Bafarawa allegedly acted as front for his father and received N4.6 billion from the NSA’s office, while Abbah Mohammed got N600 million in the name of Bam Properties Limited.