Share this on WhatsApp
The Skyway Aviation Handling Company Limited (SAHCOL) Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano Station, has passed the International Safety Audit for Ground Operations (ISAGO).
This was announced in a statement issued by Mr. Basil Agboarumi,General Manager, Corporate Communications, SAHCOL, on Thursday in Lagos.
The statement said the audit was conducted by the International Air Transport Association (IATA).
“This certification signifies that SAHCOL’s Kano Station has now modeled its operations to the ISAGO standards, as a result making a commitment to operate to globally accepted industry best practices.
“The registration, which is in accordance with the provisions of the ISAGO Programme Manual, covers the operational disciplines of Load Control (LOD), Passenger and Baggage Handling (PAB), Aircraft Handling and loading (HDL), Aircraft Ground Movement (AGM), and Cargo and Mail Handling (CGM).”
It stated that the company’s Lagos Station was first certified in 2011.
“The certification of the Kano Station now brings to three (Lagos, Abuja and Kano) the number of SAHCOL stations admitted on the IATA website as an ISAGO Registered Provider, having undergone an ISAGO Audit and cleared all findings.
“ISAGO audit is essential to promote safer ground operations, understanding of high risk areas within ground operations,” it said.
The statement added that the audit also eliminated redundant audits from airlines, hence promoting a uniform audit process and harmonised standards that improved quality in aviation ground handling.
It said SAHCOL became a SIFAX Group Company in December 2009, after its successful privatisation by the Federal Government.
“Within this period, SAHCOL has invested in personnel development, purchase of modern ground handling equipment, infrastructural development and good customer services.
“These have helped to reposition the company to meet the expectations and needs of its growing list of clientele,” the statement added.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment