By Lanre Adesanya
Piqued by the total blackout and gradual glide to a halt of the power supply in Alaguntan Community Development Area (CDA) in Agbado Oke-odo Local Council Development Area, residents have appealed to Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company (IKEDC) to address their plight.
A number of elders in the community told newsmen that the situation has not only paralyzed the economic activities, it also worsened the health condition of residents.
According to them, several efforts have been made to ensure restoration of power supply to  the community without any success over the months, since the community’s  transformer was taken.
Alhaji Ahmed Amosa, the CDA’s Chairman of Electricity said “Our transformer park up for almost two to three months now. We have been meeting the management of IKEDC for it to be fixed but no respite till now.
“They keep promising us another one, up till now we have not seen anything. We appeal to them to help us with another transformer because we are already in the dry season when the heat is intense every day.
“Let them help our children who need power to read at night and pregnant women who could be affected by the heat,” Amosa said.
The chairman added that before the transformer was taken away by IKEDC, the power had been epileptic shortly after the General election in the area.
According to him, the area has been groaning under poor power supply, while other communities were enjoying supply after the inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari.
Also, Mr Suabana  Bada, the General Secretary of the CDA, who decried the insensitivity of IKEDC to the plights of the residents, said that electricity provider has continued to bill resident for power not consumed.
Bada said, “The blackout in this community is very terrible because it has lingered for more than two months. We detest the  insensitivity of the Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company (IKEDC) to the plight of the people.
” This development has not only ruined the businesses of this area but affected the health of the people. It has caused so many problems for us.
” The heat now is beyond explanation, it is unbearable and the fuel is not available to power our power generating plants.
“The electricity provider has worsened the problems of the residents as they continue to bring bills to people even for the power they don’t find to consume. For months now, we don’t have power and IKEDC has not stop bringing crazy bills.”
Bada lamented that the IKEDC had continue to renege in their promises to restore power to the community.
He urged, “we need our transformer quickly and there should be no billing again until there is power supply. It is an injustice and a curse to charge people for the service they never enjoy.”
Also speaking, Sir Emmanuel Ashefon, a former chairman of the CDA said, “I have questioned the electricity company that how can a company be operating without spares. It is just as criminal as  driving a car without a spare tyre.
“My appeal to them is that they should replace the transformer to allow us live a normal life, ” Ashefon said.
A resident, Mr Ayobami Adesina said that he had spent a lot of money fueling his generator to allow his new born baby sleep at night.
Another resident, Mrs Odunayo Adeleye, who described the lack of electricity and the continuous billing as bad, said, ‘it is heart aching to be seeing power supply at the neighbouring communities and blackout in ours.’
Also, Mr Ayo Alade likened the removal of the transformer that supply power to the community  to removing the joy of the people.
Alade said that the community has been contributing, spending and replacing damaged poles, burnt and stolen cables.
“We will appreciate if IKEDC could be responsive to our plights and complaints,” he said.

			
			Post Views: 
			44