Share this on WhatsApp



By ANDREW OJIEZEL
In apparent bid to build saving culture and encourage existing customers to embark on more savings, Guaranty Trust Bank plc is set to hold the 3rd edition of the GTCrea8 Mini Cooper giveaway. The promo which was launched in 2013 provides a platform for the Bank to reward one lucky GTCrea8 customer with a brand new Mini Cooper car.The raffle draw for the Mini Cooper giveaway is scheduled to hold on Wednesday, 9th of December, 2015, at the GTBank Head office in Lagos.
Since the launch of the campaign, two lucky GTCrea8 customers have been rewarded with a brand new mini cooper car. In 2013, Shalom Wigwe Elisha – a 2nd year student of medicine at the University of Lagos became the very first recipient of the prestigious car. Maryam Adebiyi – a student of Lagos state Polytechnic was the next to win the car in 2014. In addition to the car giveaway, 90 undergraduates have been rewarded with scholarships worth 150,000 each over the last 3 years.
This year, GTBank has continued its tradition of rewarding loyal customers with amazing prizes such as laptops, smart phones, free mobile data and cosmetic kits for aspiring make-up artists. The Bank has also awarded scholarships totaling N900,000 to 6 lucky students in the course of the year.
Commenting on the event, Segun Agbaje, CEO/Managing Director of GTBank said: “The younger generation hold the key to our economic future and as such must develop a habit of planning ahead, saving, and investing wisely.
The GTCrea8 platform is structured to assist students with their daily and future financial plans by enabling them develop valuable financial literacy and money management skills, which subsequently prepares them for greater responsibilities in the years ahead.”
The GTCrea8 account is a trendy, card-based interest bearing account designed especially for undergraduates. It is part of the Bank’s value proposition to deliver banking in a different way to young people by engaging them with fun, exciting and interactive activities such as musical Campus Storms and master classes which resonates with their unique demographics.
The GTCrea8 train also stormed 21 tertiary institutions across the 6 geo-political zones in Nigeria reducing the cost of on-boarding to the students and promoting entrepreneurship for undergraduates.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment