From TOM GARBA, Yola
GOVERNOR Mohammadu Umaru Bindow of Adamawa state has stated that his administration was on a rescue mission to deliver dividends of democracy to the people via the change mantra of the All Progressive Congress, APC.
He was speaking at the Government House, Yola, during the swearing in of 49 area administrators, pointing out that the only egacy from his predecessors was that of backwardness with no development projects to show for th 16 years of governance by the PDP.
According to him, the 16 years of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, PDP, left the state in comatose with government presence not felt in almost every sector of the economy.
“Since we took over the administration of the state, we have been busy trying to right the wrongs of the previous regime in the state”, the governor stated.
He said that the APC led government in the state is in a battle to rescue the state from the mass destruction and economic havoc caused by the past government, arguing that the APC in the state has done greatly by bringing dividends of democracy to the doorsteps of people in the state especially at the grassroots within a short time in the office.
He explained that party’s supremacy would not be toyed with by his administration calling on members of his cabinet to accord APC leaders in the state all necessary respect for giving them platform to meet up with their people’s yearnings.
Bindow added that due to lack of government presence in the state, the APC led government has chosen to execute many roads projects within the state capital.
Fr instance, he said the Mubi township road has been awarded and that the Ganye township road is next in line to be awarded.
In a related development , an international women activist, Aishatu Nana Abubakar has berated Gov Muhammadu Jibrilla of Adamawa over the appointment of 49 development area administrators without consideration for the female gender.
Speaking to our correspondent in a telephone interview in Yola, Nana recalled previous appointments made by Jibrilla which she said did not favour the women folk’, saying, this is insensitivity to them in the opposite sex who gave him overwhelming protest votes to win the election that brought him to office.

			
			Post Views: 
			49