Share this on WhatsApp
Members of the Lagos state council of the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), representing the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), has commended the Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Engr. Saleh Dunoma, for his efforts at resolving the disagreement between FAAN workers and the management.
Members of a delegation that represented the union made this declaration recently when they paid a courtesy visit to the FAAN boss,who was represented by the Director of Maintenance and Engineering, Engr. OlufemiOgunode.
At the meeting, Ogunode presented a copy of the communiqué jointly signed by Management and the Union on issues earlier raised by the union  and assured the union that Management would abide by the conditions stipulated  in that agreement.
The representative of the National President of NUATE, Mr. Ukah Williams,who is the 1st Deputy President of NUATE, expressed satisfaction at the way FAAN management responded to the demands of the workers and reiterated that management should not renege on the agreement jointly signed with the union.
It would be recalled that the Authority had earlier issued a statement acknowledging that it had bowed to the demands of the disgruntled workers, who staged protests severally to express their grievance. It all paid off in favor of the union early this week as FAAN had agreed to increase staff allowances and all other demands by the workers.
In effect, FAAN accepted to commence the payment of furniture grants by January 2016 with modalities for the payment of 27% salary arrears to be worked out before Monday December 7, 2015.
Also on the issue of promotion, FAAN management promised to conclude all issues relating to promotion by December 17 2015, while every qualified employee of the agency will be given opportunity to participate in the promotion exercise to be strictly done in accordance with the condition of service by involving the unions.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp