By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
As Copa Lagos Beach Soccer tournament was round off on Sunday in Lagos, Cote d’Ivorie National Beach Soccer team clinched the trophy after white washing the England Beach soccer team by 7 goals to 4.
By this victory, the Ivorians retained the cup they won in the 2014 edition after defeating the Super Sand Eagles last year.
The Nigerian side also defeated the Lebanese side 7- 4 in a highly contested game that saw Nigerian Captain Abu, scoring vital goals to secure second place position.
In the club challenge competition, FC Barcelona of Spain Beach soccer team humiliated Pepsi Football Academy 9 -2 in a game that witnessed a Barcelona player red-carded.
In the first match, Shooting Stars of Ibadan displayed bright skills in the clash
with fellow NPFL side, Kano Pillars, to run out 8-3 winners. Shooting, who emerged runners-up in the
four-team club challenge, also scooped the Most Valuable Player award when Ayo Ayinor was selected as the MVP award winner.
Speaking with National Daily, the Barcelona Captain Amarele said he enjoyed playing with other teams but was quick to observe that other teams are lacking in the area of technical and tactical skills, saying they need to be exposed more by playing more friendly games and other competitions.
“We play as many as 70 games a year. I understand that some of the teams we played do not play as much as 20 games a year. They are physically strong but lack technical and tactical skill needed to win matches,” Amarele added.
At the medal presentation, Ladi Balogun, the DMD First City Monument Bank plc, a major sponsor, Amaju Pinick, Chairman, Nigeria Football Federation; Deji Tinubu, Lagos Commissioner for Sports and other personalities from Pepsi Bottling company decorated the players with medals and awards.
In a chat earlier, former NFA scribe, Amos Adamu said Beach soccer can only get better with the right investment by the private sector to complement the efforts of Kinetic sports, organizers of annual Copa Lagos Beach soccer tournament.
At intervals, fans were entertained by Copa Lagos cheerleaders. Nigerian sensational artist, Lamboginny performed the team song titled: “Copa Lagos” to the admiration of fans.

			
			Post Views: 
			52