Share this on WhatsApp
The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKDC) on Thursday commended the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) on the new tariff regime.
Mr. Godwin Idemudia, the Corporate Communications Manager in EKDC, gave the commendation in an interview with newsmen in Lagos.
He was reacting to the removal of fixed charges under the new tarrif regime introduced recently by the NERC.
According to him, removal of fixed charges by government is a welcome development which will benefit the customers a great deal.
Idemudia said that his company would now redouble its efforts on its metering project.
He said that the company had the least charges among the operators going by what NERC had just released.
“What it means now is that we are going to pursue vigorously our metering rollout plans to meet the yearnings of customers.
“But for those who cannot wait for the rollout plan to get to them, they can key into our Credited Advanced Payment Metering Implementation (CAPMI) programme to avoid estimated bills which do not favour the company nor the customers”.
Idemudia said that his company’s recent arrangement with Egbin for supply of 100 mega watts was still in place.
“Customers within Lekki, Ajah, Ibeju and environs will benefit greatly from this special plan.
“This is energy that will come directly to us without passing through the national grid.
“In this special arrangement, the customers will pay slightly more than regular customers.
“The good news is that it would be stable almost at all times,” Idemudia explained.
He said that the company had put in place special fault clearing teams to respond to faults during the Christmas and New Year period for faults to be attended to within a very short time of distress calls.
“Our equipment have been serviced to take any amount of energy that may be wheeled to us by the generation companies via transmission.
“While we wish our our customers the very best this season, we appeal to them to pay their bills regularly and also make use of our customer care helplines whenever they need our services.
It will be recalled that the NERC, on Dec 21, outlined various rates of increase in energy charges for consumers across the country.
It announced the removal of fixed charges for all classes of electricity consumers so that power users would only pay for what they consumed.
Fixed charge is that component of the tariff that commits electricity consumers to paying an approved amount of money not minding whether electricity is consumed during the billing period.
Under the new arrangement, residential customer classification (R2) in Abuja Electricity Distribution Company will no longer pay N702 fixed charge every month.
Their energy charge will, however, increase by N9.60.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment