By Lanre Adesanya
Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker, Rt. Hon.Mudashiru Obasa has stated that Nigeria in recent times is bedevilled with all forms of difficulties and it will take conscientious efforts and collaboration to evolve peaceful ambience for all to thrive.
Obasa hinted this while delivering a keynote address at the 9th Annual Hijrah lecture organized by the Lagos State House of Assembly Muslim Community at the Assembly Complex, Alausa Ikeja.
The theme for this year Lecture was titled: “The Universality of the Message of Muhammad.”
In his words, “The theme for this year’s programme is apt as the world; Nigeria in particular, is going through emotional experience that words cannot describe. Taking a critical look at unfolding events across the nation in the last decade, it has been a marriage of chaos and instability.
“Without doubt, we are witnessing a turbulent period as some individuals or groups living under the jurisdiction of any other authority resort to deviant violence. As a result, innocent people, particularly children, elderly and women lose their lives on daily basis while their properties are destroyed in the north eastern part of our dear country.
“As these straits of skirmishes rage on, it then dawns on us as representatives of the people who believe in the Nigerian Project to fashion out modalities towards reviving every stratum of the nation and this led to the decision of this year’s lecture.
“Our goal is to bring all and sundry together because we felt if there is change within the soul and mind-set through attitudes, beliefs, creed, symbolic interaction, motivation, commitment, the desire to bring forth compatriots towards achieving the vision and mission of maintaining a balanced society will be fruitful.
“We in government are desirous of new transformation in its ability to create a new framework of policies that will tackle complex issues, stamp out corruption and make life abundant for our people in accordance with divine laws of Allah,” Obasa said.

			
			PV: 
			0