EVERYONE would love to never grow older than thirty. Hence the constant battle to remain ever young with the help of tons of beauty product reeled out by cosmetic companies. Alas the inevitable always happen! The good news is that, it’s been proven that the aging process can be slowed down even more without going broke in the process by the daily intake of these age defying beverages.
Unsweetened Cranberry Juice
The original antioxidant-rich “super fruit,” cranberry juicediluted with water in its unsweetened natural form, not as cranberry juice cocktailtargets a number of health and beauty woes, and it’s especially beneficial for women’s health because it fights and helps to prevent common ailments like UTIs and yeast infections. It also combats tooth decay, and even contains salicylic acid, which is one of the best ingredients for fighting acne.
Green Tea
Green tea makes a great topical ingredient in toners and moisturizers, but drinking it is indeed the best way to get the full antioxidant benefits. If you’re the type of person who can’t stomach tons of water each day, green tea is also the perfect healthy replacement for hydration with a kick. The EGCG in green tea in particular more so than other teas works to fight inflammation and reduce stress, both of which are key for maintaining healthy skin and hair.
Apple Cider Vinegar
Apple cider vinegar is similar to kombucha in that its healthful properties, namely good bacteria, come from the fermentation process. Its main active compound, acetic acid, is an antimicrobial, which helps to kill bad bacteria in the body. You can mix it with water to take it internally or even dilute it and use it as a topical toner.
Aloe Water
When ingested, medicinal aloe has similar benefits to those it has as a topical treatment. It encourages healing, reduces inflammation, and also serves to hydrate, which is pretty much the trifecta for better skin. The high vitamin C content helps to maintain the health of bones and teeth, while the soft, pulpy texture makes it palatable and easy to digest.
Red Wine
This is one beauty-boosting beverage that definitely never gets old. Polyphenolsare the main ingredients in red wine.This are the high-potency antioxidants found primarily in the skin and seeds of grapes. This is why red wine has so many more anti-aging benefits than grape juice. A glass of red wine helps reduces stress, helps you get better sleep thanks to melatonin, regulates blood sugar, and even strengthens your teeth
Matcha
Matcha consists of the entire tea leaf, not just the brewed water, and its equivalent to nearly 10 glasses of standard green tea when it comes to nutritional value. It’s an “antioxidant powerhouse” that encourages relaxation, boosts energy, and helps to reduce toxins in the body courtesy of chlorophyll, a powerful antioxidant.

			
			Post Views: 
			227