Share this on WhatsApp



THE ES represents the kind of luxury on which Lexus built its brand, and it continues to be a good choice for those more interested in comfort than performance.
The 2016 Lexus ES 350’s cabin is modern and stylish. The analog clock in the center of the dash is a classy touch that breaks up the otherwise high-tech environment. There are new interior colors and trim materials for 2016, including a matte-finish bamboo trim and “flaxen” upholstery combo that makes things look positively Swedish.
The climate controls are simple to use, but the audio system is a little more complicated due to the sheer number of available media types. Although interacting with this interface is very similar to using a computer mouse, the ultra-sensitive nature of the controller can make it clumsy and distracting to use while driving.
Lexus ES 350 delivers a refined driving experience bolstered by a V6 engine that’s smooth and responsive. At highway speeds, the cabin remains remarkably silent, mostly devoid of wind, road or engine noise. Bumps and ruts in the road are also nicely absorbed. However, don’t expect complete isolation from road imperfections, as the ES 350 is tuned to deliver more of a balance between out-and-out comfort and handling precision.
Inside, the 2016 Lexus ES 350 swaddles its driver and passengers in quiet, polished comfort. There’s ample room front and rear, and interior materials and fit and finish are top-flight. The prerequisites are all accounted for: solid, quiet cabin, acres of rear legroom … rear sunshades and wood trim on the dash, doors and steering wheel. In addition to the seats, the dash gets leather, too, and all of the stitching is first-rate
In the area of safety, the car is loaded; it comes standard with antilock brakes, stability and traction control, front and rear side and side curtain airbags, and front knee airbags. Also included are a rearview camera and Lexus Safety Connect (automatic collision notification, stolen vehicle location and an emergency assist button).
The Lexus Safety System+ package bundles the pre-collision system, lane departure warnings (with steering assist to help keep the car centered in its lane), adaptive cruise control and automatic high-beam headlight control. The pre-collision system is a fairly basic frontal collision warning system, though it does have the ability to apply the brakes automatically in a potential collision situation and, for 2016, it’s able to detect pedestrians in addition to other vehicles.
Other optional equipment includes front and rear parking sensors and a blind-spot monitoring system with rear cross-traffic alerts.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment