By AKINWUMI OJO
SOME of the world’s top marathoners are expected to storm the Centre of Excellence ahead of the maiden edition of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon slated to hold on February 6, 2016.
At the press conference held at the Access Bank Corporate Headquarters recently, the organisers reeled out modalities for the Marathon which amongst other things is targeted at reviving the healthy life style of Nigerians whilst showcasing major sights in the city of Lagos.
The Special Adviser to the Governor on Sports and Chairman of the Lagos State Sports Commission, Ayodeji Tinubu pledged the unwavering support of the government while appreciating the efforts of Access Bank in bankrolling the event.
Tinubu revealed that a lot of work had already gone into making the event a success as this will be the first time in a long while that a full marathon would be held in the city and indeed Nigeria. He also stated that the world’s top athletes in the marathon have already indicated their interest in participating in the 42km race.
Executive Director, Personal Banking of Access Bank, Mr Victor Etuokwu announced that mouth watering cash prizes will be won at the epoch making event, with the winners of both men and women’s events expected to go home with $50,000 each, while second and third place finishers will take $40,000 and $30,000 respectively.
The top 20 Nigerians will also be rewarded with cash prizes starting from N1 million, while the second and third positions will settle for N750, 000 and N500, 000 respectively.
Etuokwu said, “When the idea came up that Lagos was planning to host a marathon which had been endorsed by the IAAF and Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), we felt we should support this initiative.
“Major cities in the world host marathons, which help to showcase the city. We will also do our best to bring in other top sponsors cutting across other industries including telecoms and construction. We believe in the goal of the government, so I don’t think this event is going to be a one-off.
The race will kick off from the National Stadium in Surulere, en route Ojota, the Third Mainland Bridge, Ikoyi Bridge and Lekki Toll Gate, before culminating at the Eko Atlantic City.

			
			Post Views: 
			155