Share this on WhatsApp



The Minister of State for Petroleum, Dr Ibe Kachikwu, said the nation’s refineries had been repositioned to produce not less than 10 million litres of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), popularly known as petrol, per day.
Kachikwu stated this on Sunday during his official visit to Kaduna Refining and Petrochemical Company (KRPC).
According to him, the mission of the visit was to ascertain the current state of the refinery and identify areas of challenges for the workers at the refinery.
“A lot of work has been done and a lot manpower have been put in place. But a lot still needs to be done in order to put this refinery to work continuously and reliably,” he said.
He noted that a lot of progress has been made in terms of availability of fuel in the various cities and towns as the long queues are fast disappearing from the filling stations.
While commending the management of KRPC for keeping the refinery working for more than a week now, he however said there was room for improvement so as to move the current production level from 1.5 million litres to 2 or 3 million litres per day.
He expressed confidence that with more refineries coming on stream the fuel supply situation will continue to improve in the country.
While fielding questions later from newsmen, the minister said the Federal Government was doing all it could do to ensure the subsidy on fuel is resolved without inflicting more pains on ordinary Nigerians.
“Everybody is on the same page that we need to get out of it; should we sale product at a certain price or should we let free market rolling so that we can sky rocket prices,” he said.
According to him, the President says that product should go for N87 per litre for now and that he has given an approval to look at market trends and make adjustment if need be.
He assured that the administration was committed to ensuring adequate supply of petroleum products across the country.
The minister, who was received by the Managing Director of KRPC management headed by Mr Saidu Mohammed, was accompanied by top NNPC officials during the visit.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment