The political crisis in the oil rich Rivers State will be further deepened especially as the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) fighting hard to hold on to the soul of the state, as 16 out 32 members of the state’s House of Assembly have lost their case at the Court of Appeal.
It was gathered that the court’s latest judgment on the election that brought the affected 16 PDP lawmakers to office did not substantially comply with the electoral law.
Those legislators that lost their seats are Granville Wellington in Asari Toru constituency 1. He lost to Hope Barango-Tariah of All Progress Congress (APC); In Asari Toru Constituency 2, Emeni George of the PDP lost to Godstime Ben-Horsfall of APC; Ibiso Nwuche of APC got it over the PDP lawmaker representing Ahoada-East 2. In Akuku-Toru constituency one, Jack Major of PDP lost his appeal to challenger Ineye Jack of APC.
Others who lost include Ikuinyi Ibani, the immediate past Speaker of the House who represents Andoni constituency. He lost his appeal against the challenger of Romnsan Dressman of APC. Farah Dagogo, the representative of Degema constituency, also lost his appeal against the challenger Eldred Braide of APC. Golden Ben Chioma of APC triumphed over Tonye Ejiogu of PDP representing Etche constituency 2.
Oguguo Anslem representing Ikwerre lost his appeal against Azubuike Wanjoku of APC; Dinebari Loolo of Khana constituency 2 had the earlier nullification of his mandate upheld by the Court of Appeal affirming the deposition of Friday Nkee of APC; Martin Amaehule of PDP representing Obio/Akpor constituency one lost his attempt to retain his mandate as contested by Collins Ordu of APC.
Michael Chinda of PDP representing Obio/Akpor constituency 2 also fell in the challenge posed by Belief Wali of APC; Evans Bipi, an aide to Mrs Patience Jonathan, could not hold on to his seat at Ogu/Bolo as he lost to Williams Enos of the APC; In Omuma constituency, Leo Anyanwu of APC still won the earlier nullification of the mandate of Kelechi Nwogu at the Court of Appeal.
In Ogba-Egbema-Ndoni Constituency, Gift Wokocha of APC triumphed over Christian Ahiankwo of PDP; Ngbar Amulele of PDP lost to Matthew Dike of APC; Irene Inimgba of APC nullified the election of the PDP candidate, Ihunwo Nyeche for Port Harcourt constituency two.
At the moment, due to obvious brouhaha brewing, there is growing concern that the state might be plunged into political conflict hence the National Assembly is contemplating taking over the State House of Assembly to avoid a breakdown of law and order.
The report further stated that some of the cases are still pending in the court.

			
			Post Views: 
			35