From Dominic Uzu

Senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial Zone, Comrade Shehu Sani has adopted all  the 60 children in the Adonai Orphanage Home, Kaduna, as his children.

Senator Sani made this known when he paid courtesy call on the orphanage to present food items for new year celebration.

‎The senator said though they are orphans, but they deserve a future like every other child, he added “we own it to them; to support them and make their lives useful and beneficial to the society.

‎”And what we can do is to give their lives hope, and to make it possible for them to realise their dreams, these are all handsome and beautiful children when you see their faces you remember the ones you have in the house.

“We should also take cognizance that any child can fall into this circumstance, so as a senator representing this Zone, I formally adopt this children as my own, and we will quarterly send support to this home enable you feed this children and take proper support of them and work on the possibility of their education.

‎”I will also like to know if there are those of them that has been able to finish their SSCE, and I will sponsor two children to China to study, so that these two children will serve as beacon of hope to others that will be able to support.

‎”So the orphanage should give me two names and they must be those that are here, that you know will make use of the resources that will be invested in their education.”

Senator Sani called on all Nigerians who have the means to help the orphans to come and make their own contribute in helping the orphans, adding that “as orphans, their basic needs are food, clothing, shelter and education and we all own them that.”

‎He commended the matron of the orphanage on his commitment to the child and the home, saying she is rendering services to God.


Earlier, Evangelist. Elizabeth Afuwape, matron of the orphanage, who was represented by Pastor.‎ Samuel Oyelowo  commended the Senator for his kind gesture to the home.

He said Shehu Sani is the first senator in the state to have ever visit the home since the home was founded. He urged him to keep his caring attitude towards all, saying, with people like you as a governor in this state, the poor and the orphans have hope.

He prayed God to protect and guide him, pledging ‎the home’s commitment to judicious use of resources donated by Senator Sani, adding “our major responsibility is to the children survive. “