From Odimmegwa Johnpeter, Abuja

The Director General of the Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation, Mrs. Sally Mbanefo has reiterated her commitment to the actualization of partnership with Kano State especially in the area of marketing and promotion of domestic tourism.
She made this declaration during a courtesy visit to the Corporation by a four-man delegation from the Executive Governor of Kano State, Alhaji (Dr.) Abdullahi Umar Ganduje.
According to her, Kano state is one of the tourism friendly states and also a major tourism hub and gateway in Nigeria
“This is why NTDC found it strategically important to establish the tourism information desk and travel portal at the Aminu Kano International Airport. The centre would facilitate travel businesses and promote hospitality and tourism services in Kano and Nigeria at large,” she explained.
Earlier in his speech, the Permanent Secretary, Kano State Civil Service Commission, Abdullahi H. Kwaru, who led the delegation, acknowledged the role NTDC has been playing in projecting the image of Nigeria overseas. He went further to state that the purpose of the visit is to seek collaboration with NTDC in the area of domestic tourism especially the Jiga Dam Project, women and youth empowerment including other attractions in the state.
Also speaking, the Spokesman of the delegation, Civil Service Commissioner of Kano State, Engr. Bello Mohammed noted that the NTDC is a reputable organisation which has over the years, branded Kano state as a tourism friendly state.
Engr. Mohammed lauded the NTDC Director General for her efforts to promote Kano as a tourism state in the country which she demonstrated with her recent visit to the state to open the NTDC Tourism Information desk at the Aminu Kano International airport.”
“We are proud of her passion for promoting domestic tourism even in the face of challenges in our country. We are pledging to support the efforts of the Corporation in our capacity while soliciting for collaboration with NTDC”, he said.
In her response, Mrs. Mbanefo explained that Kano State and NTDC have come a long way together, pointing out that she had embarked on a domestic tourism tour within Kano metropolis to enable her identify major tourist attractions particularly the Jiga Dam which is one of the very strong potentials in the state.
“I must say that lots of people are trooping into Kano. It is ideal for business/conference tourism. The tourism bond which will build structures around tourist sites to service the needs of the site will quickly come to bear in Kano State”, she affirmed.
 She disclosed that she visited the state chief executive and the Emir of Kano as well during which discovered that there was an agenda by the state government to give priority to tourism as a way to promote it as a critical sector of the economy.
She reiterated the present administration in the country to exploit the nation’s tourism potentials to create jobs, promote peace and harmony in the country apart from generating foreign exchange earnings at this time of lean resources.