By ESTHER EGBE
Kinetic Sports, the organisers of the annual international beach soccer event, COPA Lagos held in Nigeria and all Sub-Saharan countries have announced plans for its 5th edition of the tournament.
At a breakfast launch held at Eko Hotel & Suites, Lagos recently, the management announced that the event will hold from Friday 18th to 20th December, 2015 at the Eko Atlantic City, Victoria Island, Lagos.
The organizers also announced that the FC Barcelona Beach Soccer Team will be participating at this year’s event; and they will play against several local teams including Pepsi Beach Soccer team in the FC Barcelona Challenge. Other National teams expected to partake include England national beach soccer team and other teams to be announced later.
National Dailysports was told by  Samson Adamu (CEO, Kinetic Sports) that “The 2015 Edition is much more than a sports event. Copa Lagos is a lifestyle. There is something for everyone“.
Speaking at the event,  Samson explained  that “Kinetic Sports Management wants to make this year’s edition to be a memorable one, to linger for a long time in the minds of the people as she prepares to go beyond the limits to make it an anniversary celebration with a new dimensional focus on Concert and Fashion that will take the event beyond the beach soccer games as it prepares to give other opportunities and supports to the ever increasing Nigeria music industry.
We will be building on the ‘Clean The Beach Exercise’ scheduled for Dec’ 5th and the  latest introduction ‘The Beach Soccer  Kids Clinic’ come Dec’ 17, 2015 with an objective to engage over 100 kids between the ages of 8 -14 years and have them learn the essence of beach soccer.
Adamu concluded by giving his special thanks  to all our sponsors, FCMB, Pepsi, Orlean Investment,  Louis Roederer, our media partners Super Sports and Cool Fm and the host of other media organisation who have believed in this great vision from the cradle point of conceptualization to this very moment where the event has become an incredible spectacle that is here to remain for good, and also a key event in the international beach soccer calendar that has become one of the top five global annual event  .
 

			
			Post Views: 
			236