By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
BARELY three weeks after the Lagos State government enhanced Rapid Response Squad (RRS) logistic holdings with equipment, the Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone 2 Command, AIG Bala Hassan, has launched more equipment that would help the command tackle unsavoury developments and ensure a crime-free society.
Tagged “Police Is Your Friend Forum,” is essentially met to respond to distress calls by any individual who might be in need of help or being attacked by criminals; checkmate the activities of policemen on the field who might have been engaging in acts inimical to modus operandi of the force.
To make this realisable, the AIG launched five new motorbikes, two patrol vehicles and five mobile phone numbers that could be called by members of the public. The approved numbers are:09052222296, 09052222297, 09052222298, 09052222299 and 07068880008. “Anybody can call these numbers when in need of assistance. The motorcycles will be deployed within the city while the vehicle is to enable us reach Ogun state command, AIG Bala said.
The launching of “Police Is Your Friend Forum” also known as “Public Complaint Bureau,” is also tailored to checkmate the excesses of policemen while on duty and equally allow the force respond on time to any distress call from any member of the public.
“The response time now is five minutes, barring all odds. Despite the traffic gridlock associated in Lagos, we would do our best to ensure that our 5 minutes response is adhered to strictly. We are going to ensure that the equipment these equipment are deployed to realise the purpose they are met.
“For the yuletide, we have made adequate provision for hotels, worship centres, recreational centres to be patrolled by our officers and in collaboration with LASTMA, FRSC to ensure easy traffic flow. To complement our efforts, various DPOs have been instructed to reduce their personnel in the investigation branches so that they can join the patrol. The waterways will not be left out as the two gun boats donated by the Lagos state government and the helicopter would be used maximally.
“Incidences of traffic robbery have reduced at both Lagos and Ogun states and we are doing a lot more to ensure that miscreants don’t have the opportunity to operate. Towards that end, we have been raiding criminal hideouts with a view to ensuring that there is no safe haven for criminals.
“Nigerians should assist us with relevant information and those engaging in the use of knockout (banger) should stop it and those engaging in carnivals should keep the DPOs within their area informed so that hoodlums do not hijack it.

			
			Post Views: 
			131