Share this on WhatsApp



The beauty of competence
IN the realm of premium sports cars, Porsche takes a back seat to no one. But when it comes to back seats, Porsche isn’t the first marque that springs to mind. The new Porsche’s Cayenne combines performance, style, luxury and cutting-edge technology in an SUV that’s simultaneously exclusive and functional.
The shape may be at odds with the more traditional SUV, but there seem to be fewer and fewer of those on the market, with more sport-oriented SUVs taking their place. There’s very little rugged about this design even though it’s still deft
Porsche’s interior design aesthetic is, simply put, beautiful. There’s sumptuous, finely stitched leather mixed with real wood and metal accents. It’s what you’ll find in newer 911s, as well as the Panamera sedan.
However, while the interior’s pretty, the numerous buttons, switches and knobs can be confusing, and not all of that confusion evaporates with familiarity, especially when it comes to using the navigation system.
Engine offerings are a telltale sign of where a vehicle falls in the Porsche pecking order, and the 2015 Cayenne is clearly on top from this vantage point. Although the fuel-efficient engines soldier on, the popular Cayenne S takes a step forward in terms of both performance and fuel economy.
Instead of having a V8 like it did in prior years, it how has a turbocharged V6. Compared to the old V8, it produces more power and torque, yet returns better fuel economy. The Cayenne Turbo keeps its V8, but it boasts 20 extra horsepower and 37 more pound-feet of torque.
The Cayenne’s dizzying options list starts with three main packages. The Infotainment package offered on all but the Turbo, adds the Bose stereo, satellite radio and integrated “online services” (including the Aha smartphone app with on-demand music, Internet radio, Facebook and Twitter feeds, traffic and weather reports and Google POI search).
Unlike many rivals, the Cayenne offers almost all of its high-end options on every trim level. One exception is Porsche Dynamic Chassis Control (PDCC), which features active stabilizer bars that promote flatter cornering; another is Porsche Torque Vectoring Plus (PTV Plus), which distributes torque between the rear wheels to sharpen handling response. Both are only available on the S and Turbo trims.
The car comes standard with antilock brakes, stability and traction control, front and rear side airbags and full-length side curtain airbags. The standard “multi-collision brake system” automatically slows the vehicle down to 6 mph after an initial collision occurs in order to minimize further damage; note that the driver can override it by pressing the accelerator.
Available electronic safety features include front and rear parking sensors, a rearview camera, a surround-view camera, a blind-spot monitor and lane-departure warning. The optional adaptive cruise control system is bundled with a forward collision mitigation system that provides automatic pre-impact emergency braking if a collision is deemed imminent.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment