…arrests baron with cocaine in Tomato paste
By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
The death sentence handed over to a Nigerian in Malaysia for drug trafficking has been described as unfortunate by the acting Chief Executive of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Mrs. Roli Bode-George.
The convict, Ekene Collins Isaac, 37, was sentenced to death by a Malaysian High Court Judge, Datuk Wan Afrah Wan Ibrahim after been found guilty of smuggling 915.6g of methamphetamine, commonly known as ecstasy or MDMA, into Malaysia three years ago.
Datuk Wan said the prosecution had proven Isaac’s guilt beyond doubt and had no choice than to hand him a death sentence. In Malaysia, drug trafficking attracts death sentence.
However, it was gathered that the CEO, NDLEA, Roli has promised to resort to diplomatic efforts to save the convict while at the same time assured that the Agency would maintain total alertness in drug detection operation all through the year.
Meanwhile, two drug suspects were arrested on Boxing Day at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA) Lagos, after one of them packed drug in six wraps weighing 120 grammes and inserted into his anus while the second suspect wanted to export a consignment containing 1.860kg of methamphetamine sealed in tin tomato paste to South Africa.
The suspects identified as Ikeh Maxwell Obumneme, (40), and Nwakpo Tochukwu Akumma, (27), was arrested on Boking Day after they targeted the festive period to carry out their crime.
NDLEA Commander at the Lagos airport, Ahmadu Garba who disclosed the names of the suspects said that the suspects targeted the festive period to smuggle drugs. In his words, “Intelligence report received by the Agency indicated that the suspects specifically targeted the festive season to smuggle their drugs.
Ikeh Maxwell was said to have inserted cocaine in his anus from Sao Paulo through Dubai on Emirates flight was caught on arrival while Nwakpo Tochukwu that hid methamphetamine in tomato paste meant for export to South Africa on South Africa airways flight was equally arrested.
“The Nigerian government will work to protect every citizen from untimely death resulting from drug trafficking and drug abuse. We shall remain vigilant at all times and prevent drug trafficking syndicates from smuggling narcotic drugs in and out of the country. While respecting the laws of other countries, the Federal Government will explore diplomatic means to prevent capital punishment on citizens. Special arrangement has been made for officers to sustain intense surveillance all through the festive period and in the New Year. This covers the land borders, seaports, airports as well as all villages, towns and cities,” Roli added.
It was learnt that Ikeh Maxwell hails from Oji-River in Enugu State. Confessing to the crime, he said that “I am married with a child and live in Lagos. I sell children diapers and clothes but travelled to Brazil two months ago expecting to buy my goods at a cheaper price. In the process, I decided to smuggle 120 grammes of cocaine for monetary gains. I inserted six wraps of the drugs into my anus yet it was detected and that was how I was arrested. This is my first time” he stated.
Nwakpo Tochukwu, an automobile parts dealer at Ladipo market, Lagos said that he was only assisting a friend to send a consignment of foodstuff to South Africa. “I am 27 years old and I am single. I sell motor parts at Ladipo market. My friend in South Africa asked me to send a luggage to him. He called somebody in Lagos who brought the bag to me and I took it to the airport for shipment. During search, the drug was detected and I was arrested” Nwakpo stated.
According the Head, Public Affairs of the Agency, Mitchell Ofoyeju disclosed that the suspects will be charged to court on completion of investigations.
It would be recalled that a Nigerian female student was sentenced to death by the Malaysian High Court on early in May, 2015. The woman was found guilty of trafficking 765.9 g of methamphetamine at the KL International Airport (KLIA) four years ago.
However, about 132 Nigerian citizens are facing death row in different parts of the world especially in the Asian countries. In China, about 120 Nigerians early in the year were said to be on death row, 11 in Indonesia and 1 in Singapore.

			
			Post Views: 
			244