By Nkem Ifeoma
The Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Health, Dr Omodele Osunkiyesi has tasked Health Information Managers in the State on reliability, timeliness, accurate data collation and recording  for improved patient care delivery in the health sector.
Osunkiyesi, who was represented by Mr. Babatunde Asaye from the health ministry, gave this advice at the 2015 Health Information Management Week of the Health Information Department, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH).
while delivering a paper on the theme:  The Importance of Health Information for a Change in the Health Sector, Osunkiyesi said that the programme had set a landmark in generating documentation and protecting patient confidentiality while allowing access to providers in order to promote quality patient care.
“Sound and reliable information is the foundation of decision-making across all health system building blocks essential for health system policy development and implementation, governance and regulation, health research and financing,” Osunkiyesi disclosed.
According to her, Health information is also essential for health research, human resources development, and health education and training, “information is of little value if it is not available in formats that meet the needs of multiple users” she said.
A good HIS brings together all relevant partners to ensure that users of health information have access to quality data. Consequently, we must collectively strive towards ensuring reliable, accurate and timely data for change in our health sector, Osunkiyesi said.
Chief Medical Director of LASUTH, Dr Wale Oke, emphasized that Health Management and Information System as an integral part of the administration of the hospital. According to him, there is need for improved record keeping system as health information management is important to project for the future, in researches and analysing patients’ history and treatment.
Dr. Sunday Ayeni, the HOD of Health Information Department, LASUTH, described Health Information as scientific, administrative and legal documents and computation, written in the sequence of events.
According to him, it is meant to justify the diagnosis that warrant the treatments and end result of patients and medical cases.
“It serves as a means of enlightenment to the public and the health information can bring change to the health sector. This can be through learning, information sharing, moving from passive to active, moving from curative to preventive, from fancy to reality, from attack to persuasion and can also discourage disunity amongst health workers,’’ he said.
Prof Michael Bankole, a Pediatrician at LASUTH, said the medical practice without records will be great negligence and professional arrogance at its best. According to him, Health Information Management is the new name for medical records profession and professionals.
He said that the essence of orthodox medical practice was good record keeping as every member of a medical team could have access to health information as required. “The completeness and accuracy of the data gathering is what will give the best lead to identifying the problems of each patient seen.” Bankole explained.

			
			Post Views: 
			76