By Adedeji Fakorede
The director general, Lagos State Records & Archives Bureau (LASRAB), Mr Biodun Onayele has declared his willingness to partner with Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCO) in the area of records and archives management.
The DG made the declaration while receiving a delegation from SNEPCO on a courtesy visit to his office at the Headquarters of LASRAB in Magodo, Lagos, saying the Bureau is ready to work with institutions, companies and organizations that have established Archives.
Mr. Onayele emphasized that Lagos, being a forward looking State, is the only State in the Federation that deemed it necessary to have a permanent repository designated for both records and archives
According to him, what obtains in other States is a situation where departments are established either as records or archives department, unlike LASRAB which is an autonomous Bureau housing both records & archives.
He told the visitors that LASRAB is a young bureau with a modest beginning and vibrant future, stressing that the decision to establish the bureau was informed by the need to ensure that tracks of records are kept from when they are created to when they become reference point for historical purpose.
Onayele also sought for collaboration with SNEPCO in the areas of capacity building, donation of archival materials on Lagos and photographs of Old Lagos in the custody of the Company to the Bureau.
In her remark, Mrs. Helen Nwaobi, head, Document & Records Management, Shell Sub Sahara Africa and leader of the delegation to the Bureau, said SNEPCO will be willing to work with LASRAB and consequently advised that a formal request be sent to her Organization for the collaboration.
While expressing her delight on the high standard of professionalism maintained by the Agency as an Archival Institution, Nwaobi stated that her organization will be looking forward to establish a cordial working relationship with LASRAB.
Similarly, the Management, Staff and Officials of the Nigerian Institute of Training and Development (NITAD), Lagos State Chapter led by their Chairman, Mr Oluwaseyi Kuton, has also paid a courtesy visit to the Lagos State Records and Archives Bureau (LASRAB), for collaboration to promote records and archives management in Lagos State in particular and Nigeria in general.

			
			Post Views: 
			166