By LANRE ADESANYA
THE General Overseer Word Assembly Ministries, Reverend Isaac Omolehin has counseled Lagos Assembly members to take proactive step in addressing traffic problem confronting the state.
The cleric made this appeal while giving the sermon at the 13th edition of the Lagos House of Assembly Christian Fellowship End of the Year Thanksgiving programme themed Fulfilling Purpose.
Rev. Omolehin, quoting the Bible, stressed the importance of living a purposeful life and giving helping hands to the hurting in society.
He noted that four individuals in unison aided a palsy stricken man to get Jesus attention at all cost, an experience that sealed his healing.
The man of God stressed that blockages hamper fulfillment of purpose. “Man blocks the way down, but the way up is ever opened because God is in control of the way up,” he said.
“Lagos has a peculiar problem of traffic congestion which most times scuttles commuters’ fulfillment of purpose and I believe this legislature can address it, especially the Shagamu end of Lagos Ibadan express.”
He suggested constructing a flyover that will take those who have something doing elsewhere, aside from the prayer grounds, to their destination.
“The man hour loss on Lagos road is too much. A lot of purposes are stranded because they can’t move. Whoever can provide a way out will remain a hero,” he said, adding he would be willing to pay N1000 as a toll on the bridge in order to escape the gridlock.
The Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa, the chief host of the event, said he was filled with joy for being favoured to be the number one man in the state legislature.
He stated the importance of brotherliness in any society, and the fact that the Gospel can only be well spread when one loves his or her neighbour.
According to Obasa, our faith should not be a source of division but a source of union, the best to offer quality praise to God and spread the message of salvation, whether a Moslem or Christian is to love one another.

			
			Post Views: 
			187