By Eucharia Nzeabi
Two Catholic Priests, Reverend Father Franklyn Odiaka and Rev Fr Moses Nwaonwochei  have been kidnapped by unknown gunmen at Obior in Aniocha North Local Government Area of Delta State.
Odiaka who is the Parish Priest of Catholic Church of Assumption (Zappa Parish), Asaba was said to have been kidnapped along with Rev Fr Nwaonwochei.
They were said to be returning from a ceremony in honor of the Bishop of Issele-Uku Diocese, Most Rev. (Dr.) Michael Elue.
Although details of the kidnap were still sketchy as at time of filing this report, anxious parishioners of Assumption Catholic Church were seen around the church in clusters discussing the development in hush tunes.
Nobody was willing to divulge information as they were said to be preparing for a marathon spiritual exercise of prayer against the abductors of the fiery charismatic priest, Fr. Odiaka.
The kidnap is coming barely two weeks after hoodlums allegedly broke into the church and removed undisclosed but huge amount of money from the parish treasury.
Public Relations Officer of the Delta State Police Command, DSP Celestina Kalu while confirming the kidnap of the Catholic Priests, told National Daily that information about the situation was still sketchy.
Kalu however confirmed the arrest of five students of Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka for allegedly raping a female student of the institution.
According to her, the police received “information that a girl’s cry was heard from an uncompleted building in a bush around the railway line, Abraka.
“Consequently, patrol team was dispatched to the scene and arrested one Chukwudi Ejiede ‘m’, 22yrs, Emeka Otulugbuke  ‘m’, 21yrs, Ogbem Danul ‘m’, 20yrs, Winifred Eyefian ‘f’,  22yrs and Ziya George ‘f’, 21yrs, all students of Delta State University, Abraka.”
She added that another female student of the institution (names withheld)  “was met being raped as part of the initiation proceeding into Viqueen secret cult was also arrested.”

			
			PV: 
			0