Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Segun
In a bid to continuously bring its brand closer to customers, Kia Motors Nigeria has strengthened its dealership network with the appointment of Kojo Services International Limited in Surulere, Lagos.
Following its appointment, Kojo Services will offer the entire range of top-of-the-segment Kia vehicles through the facility located at Rasaq Balogun Street, Surulere.
The appointment comes on the heels of the expansion drive of Kia’s dealership network and further reaffirms its commitment to providing quality and comprehensive services to its loyal customers, while cementing its position as one of the best performing brands in Nigeria.
The new 3S centre boasts full-fledged facilities that consist of sales, service, spare parts providing ease and utmost convenience to Kia’s discerning clientele.
Sanjay Tatpati, Vice President, Kia Motors Nigeria stated that “at Kia Motors Nigeria, we take great pride in providing the best Kia experience at every customers’ touch points in their purchase life cycle, from the point of purchase, after sales service right through their next repurchase. And with the continued expansion of our 3S network nationwide, we hope to bring our outlet closer to our customers”.
“The appointment of Kojo Motors with long-standing dedication to strong customer service is aimed at expanding our network in the light of our increasing sales volume and our commitment to providing the best customer satisfaction. Given Kojo’s success and track record, we are confident that our customers will be offered top-notch services that exceed their expectations,” Sanjay, added.
“We are beyond pleased to join the Kia family and we will contribute our valuable experience in the auto industry to deliver best in class retail experience to the teeming customers” said Chinedu Oguegbu, Executive Director, Kojo Services.
Further added by Ikenna John Oguegbu, Managing Director, Kojo Services, “Kia Motors Nigeria’s unprecedented growth in Nigeria’s automotive industry will be a strong asset to the continued success and growth of our company and we are committed to providing Kia customers the ultimate premium services and class-defining ownership experience that is at par with the brand’s customer-focused ingrained ethos.”
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment