The Kaduna Refining and Petrochemical Company (KRPC) has begun daily production of 3.2 million litres of petrol.
This is contained in a statement signed by MR Ohi Alegbe, Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) on Wednesday in Abuja.
It said that the plant began production with an initial PMS yield of about 1.5 million litres, adding that had ramped up its daily yield to 3.2 million litres.
“The injection of this volume into the system will significantly impact ongoing special intervention efforts designed to bring relief to motorists across the country,” it stated.
The statement stated that the deployment of NNPC staff in the monitoring of fuel distribution and retail system at filling stations nationwide had started yielding positive results in Abuja and environs in less than 48 hours.
It said that the situation at most filling stations visited in Abuja remained calm and orderly as the staff of the corporation helped to fast-track the process of dispensing fuel to motorists in the FCT.
According to the statement, the Group Executive Director, Commercial and Investment of the NNPC, Dr. Babatunde Adeniran, after visiting some outlet in Abuja, has said the exercise had recorded some success.
“Our staff are putting in all their best to ensure that orderliness is restored in most of the filling stations.
“They are also there to ensure that nobody creates a situation that will hamper the discharge of products to ordinary Nigerians. So far, they are doing well in this regard,” he said.
He explained that the exercise was a hands-on approach designed to ensure that Nigerians did not suffer unnecessarily at the hands of unscrupulous marketers, adding that the situation would be improved upon.
He also called on security agencies to complement the efforts of NNPC at the filling stations.
“At one of the filling stations in Asokoro today, the police came to assist us to clear out some motorists trying to jump the queue. That is most commendable,” he added
Dr. Adeniran further urged Nigerians to cooperate with the NNPC and ensure the success of the initiative by being law-abiding and orderly to avoid chaotic situations at the filling stations.
“I hope Nigerians can have the spirit of orderliness, the spirit of cohesion and the spirit of responsibility in order to help this process,” he said

			
			Post Views: 
			136