By Gbenga Ogundare
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has accused the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government of carrying out an orchestrated and selective war against corruption, especially against the judiciary, stressing that judicial officers are now being hounded and coerced in the desperation to take over key PDP states of Akwa-Ibom, Taraba and Rivers.
The opposition party specifically said that Wednesday’s Court of Appeal rulings against former governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike and its federal legislators are clear fall-out of President Buhari-led government’s muzzling of a section of the judiciary.
The PDP in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Olisa Metuh, noted that the development portends grave danger to the nation’s democracy and the much desired peace and stability in the volatile region of the Niger Delta, especially coming on the heels of APC induced violence that led to the rupture of the Bayelsa state governorship election.
According to Metuh; “We are very worried that our country, now under the command of President Buhari, is gradually sliding into a police state with observed bloodthirsty tendencies by obviously compromised security operatives for which the citizens now live in fear.’
“For instance, how can this government explain its indifference to the recent senseless bloodletting in Zaria, Kaduna state where the military clashed with an Islamic group resulting in the loss of lives, as well as the mindless attack and killing of some unarmed protesters in Onitsha, Anambra state by security agents?’
“Also embarrassing to democracy is the flouting of judicial pronouncements, the growing erosion of personal freedom, violation of fundamental rights of citizens and brutal manhandling of suspects facing various trials, as amply evidenced by the case of the former Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Mr. Patrick Akpobolokemi, who, while on bail was openly beaten by security operatives.’
“We note that these developments are in direct contrast to democratic environment created by the PDP in the last 16 years where the rule of law and freedom of citizens were allowed to reign.’
“Of utmost concern is the unprecedented and frightening polarization of the country coming as direct consequence of the undemocratic tendencies of the Buhari administration. In the last seven months of this dictatorial and divisive regime, there has been an alarming escalation of inter-and intra-religious and ethnic hostilities that clearly threaten national cohesion and stability.”

			
			Post Views: 
			146