By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
Uneasy calm pervades the family of Gov Seriki Dickson of Bayelsa state as a yet-to-be-identified gunmen are still holding on to his younger sister who was kidnapped last Saturday.
The sister identified as Nancy Keme Dickson, was kidnapped at Yenagoa.
However, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) are trading words over who masterminded the kidnap.
The PDP was said to have fired the first shot as the party accused the APC of masterminding the kidnap of the governor’s sister, describing it as political.
In a swift reaction, the APC accused Dickson camp and his cohorts of possibly stage-managed the kidnap saga, with a view to attracting sympathy from the Southern Ijaw voters to sway votes.
Unexpectedly, the PDP warned the governor’s immediate family and relatives to be mindful of where they go and who they associate with because security reports had revealed that APC was planning to carry out more kidnappings between now and the January 9 re-run election in the state.
In a statement by PDP by the Director of Publicity of the Dickson campaign organization, Mr. Jonathan Obuebite, said “kidnappings, maiming of law- abiding citizens and other acts of criminality are notable attributes of the APC
governorship candidate (Timipre Sylva), have been on the rise, since after the botched governorship primaries of the APC in the state.”
Obuebite called for total condemnation of the act, “as this brand of politics will not augur well for a country like Nigeria, which is still building its political institutions, so as to be counted as one of the leading democracies in the world.
But the APC and the Sylva Campaign Organisation said they considered the accusation from the PDP as “the most stupid statement ever
issued by anybody.”
The party in a statement by Chief Nathan Egba, Director, Media and Publicity, Sylva Campaign Organization said: “While we sympathize with the Dickson’s family and condemn in very strong terms the kidnap of the young lady, we want to also condemn the irresponsible statement from the PDP campaign spokesman, Obuebite.
The 26-year-old girl, who was said to be the last child of the Dicksons, was abducted from her shop located in Okaka Road, Yenagoa, the state capital.
It was gathered that the gunmen who reportedly drove in an ash Lexus Jeep, trailed their target to her shop and whisked her away to an unknown place at about 2:50 pm.
Pundits are of the view that the kidnappings was politically motivated to psychologically break him down as he prepares for the concluding part of his second tenure re-election.

			
			Post Views: 
			85