By Lanre Adesanya
The Lagos State Cooperative Federation (LASCOFED) has rolled out a 3-days, subsidized free health programme, with a view to uplifting the health status of cooperators and Lagosians.
The  LASCOFED President, Mr. Oriyomi Ayeola made this disclosure, while briefing newsmen at the 2015 founder’s week programme- LASCOFED Health Mission, theme: Vision for Life, scheduled to commence from 14th to 16th December, at the body’s Secretariat Plot 13 Isaacstan Close, off Wempco Road, Ogba, 10am daily.
Ayeola appraised the maiden edition of the programme held last year, noting that the body chooses to tackle health challenges which most times hinder economic progress of cooperators at this year’s edition.
According to him this is borne out of our resolve to contribute our quota to the prevention of blindness in Nigeria, particularly in Lagos State. We also want to raise awareness on the importance of healthy living and to fulfill the 7th cardinal principle of Cooperatives-Concern for Community.
“This year we are targeting above 600 cooperators and friends for the free health packages, which includes; free eye screening, free eye glasses, free eye drugs, free eye surgery (Glaucoma, Cataract, Pterygium), free blood pressure monitor, free fasting sugar screening (Diabetes) and free prostrate evaluation, the body is poised to bear 50 percent of surgery cost incurred by cooperators, as a way of dousing the harsh economic realities in the country”.
On the modalities in place for beneficiaries, the LASCOFED boss noted that the presentation of a duly signed nomination card, obtainable at any of the 20 Multipurpose Cooperative Unions and Associations in the state enables them to access the package afforded them on the designated days.
He noted that the first day will take care of beneficiaries from, Agege, Alausa, Ikeja, Alimosho, Epe, Ibeju Lekki/Ajah, LASCOFIS (Lagos State Cooperative Finance and Investment Society), Artisans and Women-in-Cooperative, the second day will take care of Multipurpose Cooperative Unions (MCU) from Ajeromi Ifelodun, Amuwo Odofin, Apapa, Ojo, Badagry, Kosofe and Shomolu, LASTCOOPA (Lagos State Transporters Cooperative Association), the last day is scheduled to attend to the remaining Multipurpose Cooperative Unions (MCU); Ikorodu, Ikoyi/V.Island, Lagos Island, Lagos Mainland, Mushin, Oshodi/Isolo and Surulere.
He also added that the cooperative is working on making available for purchase at subsidized rate through the bulk purchase committee, essential commodities this yuletide to ease cooperators and interested Lagosians the market hassles.
Dr. Tayo Bogunjoko representing Deseret Eye Centre, a member of Eye Foundation Hospital Group, the technical partner with LASCOFED stressed that, “the causative agent of blindness is Cataract people are ignorant of it we screen for eye disease, many don’t even know that they can be treated, we will reach as many people as possible”.

			
			PV: 
			0