From CHRISTIANA EKPA, Lokoja
All Progressive Congress nominated Candidate and the replacement to the late Prince Abubakar Audu, Alhalji Yahaya Bello has disclosed that he is going to be the Governor of all the people of Kogi State and not the governor of the people of Central senatorial district as speculated.
Addressing newsman in Lokoja, Bello said, He was one of the persons that never believed in the reality of power shifts as it is being promoted noting that God brought  him on. He added that he will work hard to bring all aggrieved members of his party together.
He said his government will ensure that everything works for the great people of his state, adding that “I am not the Governor of Central, I am the Governor of Kogi State”
“APC is one big family and you know in any larger family, there is room for disagreement but we will work hard to ensure all aggrieved parties are brought under one umbrella of our great Party. Everybody will air his grievances and we will ensure that everybody is carried along”.
According to him, the legal aspect of the political uncertainty in the State has been taken care off by the High Court in Abuja, hoping that all parties involved will accept the position of the law.
He appealed to the Electorate to go about carrying out their Civic responsibilities of voting the candidate of their choice in a peaceful and orderly manner.
He noted that he was happy for the way the people of State comport themselves after the court ruling, stressing that the position of the court helped the situation.
Meanwhile, Accreditation commenced  in Angwa polling unit in Ankpa local government at 8 am with large turn out of voters recorded.
Also in Bagana polling units in Omala local government area, the turnout was impressive
As at about 08:17am at Idanuhua 04 Polling unit 002 Adavi local government area, Accreditation also started at about8.20am at Bariki ward polling unit.
So far the Supplementary election in Kogi is peaceful and is violence free.

			
			Post Views: 
			63