Share this on WhatsApp



The stylish and versatile Honda CR-V has received a 5-Star Overall Vehicle Score, the top score available in the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) New Car Assessment Program (NCAP).
Earlier, the CR-V earned a TOP SAFETY PICK+ rating from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS), making it a collision safety leader and standout choice in the SUV market.
“Consumers have made the CR-V America’s best-selling SUV for good reason, and this top government safety rating just adds one more appealing and class-leading attribute,” said Jeff Conrad, senior vice president and general manager of the Honda Division. “Honda is committed to offering vehicles that deliver advanced safety, fun-to-drive performance and connectivity, with top fuel economy ratings. CR-V is that kind of vehicle.”
In receiving the 5-Star Overall Vehicle Score from NHTSA, the Honda CR-V has also met the requirements of the agency’s three recommended technologies: RVS-Rear Video System (back-up camera), FCW Forward Collision Warning and LDW Lane Departure Warning.
The Honda CR-V utilizes the latest generation of Honda’s Advanced Compatibility Engineering™ (ACE™) body structure which helps make the CR-V highly effective at absorbing and dispersing the energy of a frontal collision crash.
Honda has a long history of leadership in the development and application of advanced technologies designed to enhance the safety of all road users, including automobile occupants, motorcycle riders and pedestrians. The company operates two of the world’s most sophisticated crash test facilities, in Ohio and Japan, and is responsible for numerous pioneering efforts in the areas of crashworthiness, airbag technology, collision compatibility and pedestrian safety.
Based in part on advancements to Honda’s Advanced Compatibility Engineering™ (ACE™) body structure, Honda is a leader in third-party crash test ratings within the industry. The company also is broadly applying advanced safety and driver-assistive technologies such as LaneWatch, Forward Collision Warning and Lane Departure Warning to its product lineup.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment