Share this on WhatsApp



By Isaac Tersoo Agber
Dana Air has partnered KinabutiFashion House and Pulse.ng to help youths across the country to achieve their dreams by providing them a platform to showcase their talents through Dare 2 Dream season 2.
Dare 2 Dream, a brainchild of Kinabuti Fashion House, is a motivational modelling contest with a strong element of youth empowerment that is aimed at discovering budding talents as well as helping to nurture them.
Dana Air on the other hand, has always been responsive to the cause of youth empowerment as evident in its drive to always support credible initiatives that supports the younger population in their chosen careers.
Speaking at the press briefing to formally unveil season 2 of the project, the Accountable Manager of Dana Airlines, Mr. Obi Mbanuzuo, said, ”this is the second time we are providing technical support to this initiative and it is a clear indication of our desire to always support any initiative that would serve as launch pad for youths in Nigeria.
“We recognize that the youth make up a large part of the Nigerian population and by extension, a significant portion of our guests. An investment in the youth is an investment in Nigeria’s future and we believe this initiative will help the youth focus more and believe in their dreams.’’
Also speaking, the Managing Partner at Kinabuti, Ms. Caterina Bortolussi said, ‘’all the successful candidates will be given hands-on training in posing, styling, start-up business management and other key areas of fashion and modeling.
“For those who are talented in acting and singing, we have also made provisions to help them blossom in their chosen career, which makes Dare 2 Dream season 2 a total package this time.”
Dana Air through its charitable trust has been fulfilling its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to the society.
The airline is one of Nigeria’s leading airlines, operating over 18 daily flights to Accra, Abuja, Lagos Port-Harcourt and Uyo and it is reputed for its efficient customer services, world- class in-flight services, on-time departures and arrivals, innovative e-airline products and high safety and quality standards.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment