Share this on WhatsApp



Hyundai Motors Nigeria Limited, authorised Hyundai manufacturer and product distributor has inaugurated another showroom that truly depicts the Hyundai DNA, promising to integrate attractive pricing structure and riveting sales incentives with efficient service structure.
The Hyundai Motors Nigeria Head of Sales and Marketing Jatin Nadkarni gave this hint in Lagos at a customer appreciation ceremony, remarking that the facility was fundamental to the harmonization of ideals and reassessment of the Hyundai brand.
Located between the trio of Nissan, Audi and Porsche showrooms in highbrow Akin Adesola Street Victoria Island Lagos, the facility would ease access to Hyundai product range; sales and after sales service under a convenient atmosphere, Hyundai Motors Nigeria management assured.
“This ultramodern 3s showroom is borne out of Stallion Group’s commitment to the Hyundai brand and particularly her dedication to the Federal Government auto policy direction to make affordable vehicles available to the teeming motoring publics,” Mr. Nadkarni explained.
He said: “We are looking forward to unlocking the huge potential of the showroom which will give us great opportunity to present the Hyundai range to our valued customers in all its variety.”
A subsidiary of West African Conglomerate Stallion Group, the Hyundai Motors Nigeria avant-garde showroom follows Hyundai Motor Corporation adaptable module and concept design that is gradually being rolled out across Hyundai dealerships worldwide.
Mr. Nadkarni said Hyundai is committed to becoming a lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond, adding that the Korean automaker offers top-quality best sellers that have won internationally acclaimed reputation.
He said customers can also savour the beauty of new model Hyundai cars in the showroom while their cars are checked-in for routine maintenance in the conviviality of the new showroom fitted with a quick service centre that can handle 25 cars per day.
Meanwhile, the company has announced the introduction of attractive pricing structure that would fit all customers that aims to drive Hyundai engineered vehicles and endear the brand unique premium experience to customers, Nadkarni said.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment