Share this on WhatsApp



Mr Joe Madu, one of the passengers who boarded the Turkish Aircraft that delayed in delivering the luggage of its Abuja-bound passengers, has called on the Federal Government to sanction the Airline.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that aggrieved passengers of the airline on Dec. 24 invaded the tarmac of Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport and prevented the aircraft that brought them to Abuja from taking off.
The Minister of State for Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, who described as the action of the passengers as `security breach,’ suspended the Airport Manager, Terminal Manager and the Head of Security.
He also directed Consumer Protection Unit of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to investigate Turkish airline to determine its level of complicity in the breach.
Madu told reporter on Wednesday in Abuja that the delay in the arrival of his luggage caused him damages.
He accused Turkish Airline of taking the Nigerian government for granted by treating its citizens who travelled on its flight with disrespect.
He commended the aviation minister for suspending the three airport officials and urged him to sanction the airline and others involved.
Madu said: “we are not happy that we are being maltreated in our own country by a foreign airline.
“Officials of the airline could not even explain to us what happened to our luggage.
“I am aware that this is not the first time the airline has behaved like this in this country.
“I commend the Minister for his intervention but I want him to go a bit further by ensuring that the airline is sanctioned so that things like this don’t repeat itself again.’’
An airport official, who pleaded anonymity, told reporter that some foreign airlines operating in Nigeria were fond of maltreating their Nigeria bound passengers and often got away with it.
The official expressed satisfaction that the aviation minister, who understands the aviation industry, would sanitise the industry.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment