…kill 10 in Maiduguri
By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
A catastrophe of huge proportion was averted in Kaduna State and other contiguous areason Sunday as troops of the Nigerian Army arrested seven suspected Boko Haram terrorist bombers and Improvised Explosive making Devices (IEDs) specialists.
It was learnt that the terrorists were arrested in Kaduna after a painstaking surveillance and proactive intelligence operations that spanned for over a long period of time.
According to the Director, Army Public Relations, Col Sani Kukasheka Usman said the suspects were in Kaduna to carry out suicide bombings, kill and maim innocent citizens in the state and other surrounding areas during the festive period.
He pointed out that recent incidence in Maiduguri where some terrorists were arrested while trying to detonate IEDs carried in food containers in public places was a reminder to the fact that the military wouldn’t rest in their oar until the last terrorist is routed out.
Col Usman reiterated that, “The arrest of these suspects would no doubt assist in the fight against terrorism in the country, more so as the military have technically defeated the Boko Haram terrorists in the field. They have resorted to attacking soft targets through suicide bombings, IEDs and harassing attacks on isolated communities.”
While appealing to the public to be “more vigilant and security conscious and report suspicious persons and movements to the security agencies,” he cautioned that “the terrorists have resorted to mingling with the public across the country after sensing the futility of their encounter with troops in the north east and have adopt other methods of perpetuating violence in the society,” he added.
In another development, troops on “Operation LAFIYA DOLE “ on Sunday evening intercepted suicide bombers killing 10 of them at the outskirts of Maiduguri city.
According to Colonel Mustapha Anka, the Media Coordinator
of Operation LAFIYA DOLE said contrary to media reports that the city of Maiduguri was attacked; the troop actually arrested two Boko Haram terrorists, who after diligent interrogation disclosed the plan by their colleagues (terrorist) to launch an attack by detonating bombs in selected public places.
He explained that based on the information gathered, “The troops laid ambush on the terrorists suspected routes along Damboa road and eliminated them. The suicide bombers were intercepted in three different locations approaching the city; Ajiri area towards Damboa road, High Court axis and the Eye Hospital Area.”
Col Anka added that the Explosive Ordinance Device team are combing the general area as well as clearing the debris adding that normalcy has been restored in the area by the troops.

			
			Post Views: 
			119