By OKOSUN OKHUELEIGBE
Combating crime is not limited to using the instrumentality of weaponry and ubiquity of police personnel, but has been conveniently fought by engaging the youths in active golfing after school hours.
The Assistant Inspector General of Police, AIG Bala Hassan disclosed to National Daily at the Lagos Golf Club, Ikeja during the birthday anniversary of Awa Ibraheem Junior Open Golf Club.
AIG Bala Hassan Children Golf Club based in Jos had 40 children participating in the championship. The police boss explained that he was motivated to start the Golf club in 2012 on “the need to bring the youths together and engage them in meaningful activities” with a view to removing a lot of youths from crime.
He said, “The moment you engage them after they close from school, it take them away from other social vices.
The crime in around Jos have reduced drastically because most of these youths that do not belong to the club come to watch others play the game and by so doing, they devote their attention to meaningful things and shun other anti-social behaviours. It is not only in golf but other sporting activities. It is another way of fighting crime,” AIG Hassan explained.
“I put them together; they are about 40 children in the age of 6 to 14 in the team. We would continue to train them with a coach and they have participated in a number of tournaments within the country and have been getting meaningful result.
“My intention in Lagos is to partner with existing clubs and see how best to develop the game better. I want the Tiger Woods of the future to come from either Lagos, Jos or anywhere in Nigeria. That is my dream.
“I will encourage Area Commanders and Divisional Police Officers (DPO) to look at the area of sports as a veritable way to checking crime in their domain. When you engage the youths meaningfully, you can check crime wave among them. They could even give you relevant information to check crime.
The Vice Captain of the club, Mohammed Aruna, (8 years)said the has broaden his horizon and his circle of friends. The Primary three pupil of Police Children Staff College, Jos added that his dream is to be among the best golfers in the world.
For the 12 years old Wong Joseph, his future dream is seeing himself as the Tiger Wood. However, Blessing Wilson, (13 years) the Vice Captain for Ladies, Golf is a game she admires and always loves to play. “I find golf very interesting and feel very happy playing it. I love sports so much,” she expressed.
AIG Bala Hassan Children Golf Club was founded in 2012 when he was the Commandant, Police College, Jos. Since then, they have participated in several competitions including Senator David Mark Golf Tournament in Otokpo, Benue state winning prizes and scholarships.

			
			Post Views: 
			86