Share this on WhatsApp



STALLION NMN, the authorised Nissan sales company and owners of the Nissan vehicle assembly facility in Lagos, last week unveiled the first ever locally armoured premium sport utility vehicle equipped to certify level B6+ CEN armouring.
The redesigned Nissan Patrol SUV is armoured in accordance with certified B6 armouring to protect cabin occupants from ballistic threats up to the 7.62x51mm NATO ammunition as well as explosives up to 2x DM51 hand grenades.
Stallion NMN Limited Managing Director Parvir Singh who gave this hint in Lagos said: “the Nissan armoured Patrol Y62 series is an emerging global leader in discreet armoured vehicles and ideal base unit for diplomatic, humanitarian aid and international organisations operating in harsh terrain and dangerous region throughout the world.”
This adaptation of the Patrol brings to four the numbers of Nissan models that were assembled locally at the multipurpose VON Automobile plant including Nissan Patrol, NP300 Pick-up and Almera sedan, Mr Singh affirmed.
He said Nissan’s performance since 2013, when it was re-inaugurated with the Stallion dealership has been remarkably appealing with key milestones achieved.
“We have so far launched seven Nissan models including Almera, Sentra, Altima, Urvan, Pathfinder, X-Trail and Quashqai crossover vehicles,” Stallion NMN helmsman recalled.
In his presentation, Stallion NMN Limited head of sales and marketing Amit Sharma described the redesigned Nissan Patrol Y62 series as unprecedented amongst discreet armoured vehicles with inconspicuous exterior appearance that looks like normal vehicle and completely OEM interior upholstery with storage area built to accommodate full seating capacity.
Sharma said: “The Nissan Patrol Y62 platform is longer, wider with more passenger room than the Toyota Land Cruiser 200 series, flaunting more horsepower, luxury and rides like an OEM vehicle.”
Other exclusively unique features of the armoured Patrol include, all round heavy duty upgraded compensated braking system, anti-explosion exhaust insert; back door configuration manual/electronic egress system; battery armour protection, door restrains, reinforced hinges and run-flat tyre systems.
Coupled with these are proprietary suspension and braking system upgrades are developed and installed on the vehicle to support the additional armouring weight and improved vehicle handling, Sharma added.
The Nissan armoured Patrol which is not mass produced is priced from 28m and currently available at the Stallion NMN showrooms and on request, the company head of sales and marketing affirmed. 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment