By SEUN FASHOLA
A positive addition has berthed in the Lagos State hospitality landscape with the coming on board of Ileviaoje Hotels and Suites in Mushin area of the state.
This new hospitality outfit is twenty minutes-drive from Nigeria’s premier international gateway; the Muritala Mohammed International Airport; fifteen minutes-drive to the Lagos Island Business District, it is five minutes-drive to the Matori Industrial Estate and the Ilupeju Residential and Industrial Estate respectively.
It is a walking distant to two major international markets in Lagos, the Ojuwoye and Awolowo markets. Local and international patrons to these markets now have a place to lay their heads and transact their businesses with ease and in comfort.
Ileviaoje boasts of modern hospitality offerings, top of which is security, aside the engagement of well-trained guards and the installation of a Close Circuit Camera System; there is a direct line to the nearest Nigerian Police Station, with these measures the security of lives and properties of house guests are guaranteed.
The hotels that sits on an expansive piece of land on Olowo street, off the popular Post Office road in Mushin; this makes it well located and easy to find.
For accommodation the hotel offers three types of rooms to lodgers; Executive, VIP and Standard. Her rooms are internet connected, en-suited, air-conditioned, with satellite channelled HD television sets, aside the availability of 24 hour electric power, there are also surge protector units to protect the gadgets of customers from effect of electric surge and spike.
With a cool and serene external ambience that consists of flowers, water fountains and a pool side bar. This is designed to give outdoor pleasure to the hotel guests. Ileviaoje Hotel and Suites also offers restaurant, laundry, pool and gymnasium services to both lodgers and other patrons.
There is a conference room to serve as business meeting venue and an ample car parking space. The hotel charges competitive rates and there is a reliable POS to make payments less cumbersome for their guests.
Intending patrons can book their lodgings online; however digital booking system is in place to make the front desk experience not only contemporary but also delight-some and secured.
Ileviaoje Hotel and Suites is duly registered with relevant regulatory agencies and is set to bridge the Lagos State hotel room deficit with her over fifty room offering.

			
			PV: 
			0