Share this on WhatsApp



When it comes to seamless ground handling services, you might need to stick with the best. That is the position ofSouth African Airways (SAA) as the airline is not prepared to condone failures in its bid to stage highly competitive flight operations at its new Abuja route.
The airline, touted as Africa’s giant and passengers’ most preferred, has contracted Skyway Aviation Handling Company Limited (SAHCOL), to take care of ground services at the NnamdiAzikiwe International Airport, Abuja.
In a statement issued to aviation correspondents in Lagos, SAHCOL’s General Manger, Corporate Communications, Mr. Basil Agboarumi, said the airline “preferred” to stick with the ground handling company, which has earned credit for rendering flawless services within the bounds of time and coded parameters.
In anticipation, the Abuja contract has opened a new chapter for both companies to further enjoy their “long standing” business friendship, closing up to 10 years.
“This award kicks off the beginning of another long standing relationship between SAHCOL and South African Airways (SAA), in providing seamless services to the airline,” Agboarumi informed.
And with this new opportunity, SAHCOL will be much pleased to showcase its expertise yet again by providing fast and expedient ground handling services to the SAA operations in Abuja, in the areas of Passenger directory, as well as Ramp and Cargo handling services, the GM explained.
According to him, SAHCOL has successfully established a very strong market presence in the Domestic and International aviation industry over the years. The company is, no doubt, known for its unmatched expertise in providing exceptional passenger, ramp and cargo/warehousing services.
Currently, SAHCOL has become a reference point where successful flights are ensured, having implemented structures/ procedures in line with international best practices, leading to expedient and speedy delivery of Aviation Ground Handling services to all its customers.
Little wonder that thecompany’s new warehousing facilities with state-of-the-art equipment, coupled with the characteristic acumen of its personnel, have endeared SAAand other air giants to opt for its handling services at the MurtalaMuhammed International Airport, Lagos.
Having earned a certification of excellence by the IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations (ISAGO), SAHCOL has continued to gain recognition from both indigenous and foreign carriers.
And as a member of SIFAX Group,one of Africa’s fastest growing multinational corporations with diverse interests in Maritime, Aviation, Haulage & Logistics, Oil & Gas and Hospitality, SAHCOL is currently witnessing massive deployment of modern Ground Support Equipment (GSE), infrastructural development and trainings, geared towards its goal for meeting and exceeding customers’ expectations.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment