By Lanre Adesanya
Twenty- three Commissioners and fourteen Special Advisers appointed to form the Lagos State executive council were officially inaugurated today.
The Governor of Lagos State Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode’s allotment of portfolios immediately follow the twin oath taking exercise ( oath office and secrecy), amid the rowdy session, which had lots of political associates and well wishers of the new appointees in attendance.
The 23 commissioners and portfolios are ;Hon. Isiaka Oluwatoyin Suarau–Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr. Olawale Wasiu Oluwo–Commissioner Energy and Mineral Resources, Hon. Oluseye Olaniran Oladejo–Commissioner Special Duties and intergovernmental relations,Prince Rotimi Adebolade Ogunleye–Commissioner Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, Mr.Olufemi Adeboye Odubiyi–Commissioner Science and Technology, Dr. Anthony Ekundayo Mobereola– Commissioner Transport, Prince Gbolahan Wasiu Lawal–Commissioner Housing, Mr. Mosediq Adeniji Kazeem–Commissioner Justice/Attorney General,ENGR. Ganiyu Abiodun Johnson–Commissioner Works and Infrastructure, Dr. Olajide Saminu Idris–Commissioner for Health, Mr. Folorunsho Ninuola Folarin-Coker– Commissioner Tourism, Art and Culture, Hon.Muslim Olohuntele Folami–Commissioner Local Government and Community Affairs, Mr. Babatunde Fuad Durosinmi-Etti–Commissioner Wealth Creation, Mr. Oluseyi Steeve Ayorinde — Commissioner Information and strategy, Mr. Akinyemi Jeremiah Ashade–Commissioner Economic Planning and Budget,Engr.Adebowale “Ade” Akinsanya–Commissioner Water Front and Infrastructure, Dr. Benson Oke Akintola–Commissioner Establishment and Training, TPL. Wasiu Abiola Anifowoshe–Commissioner Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Mustapha Abiodun Akinkunmi–Commissioner Finance, Alhaja (Mrs.)Uzamat Folashayo/Akinbile-Yusuf–Commissioner Youths and Social Development, Hon. Sulola Fibisola Akande–Commissioner Women and Poverty Affairs,Hon. (Dr.) Babatunde Samuel Adejare–Commissioner Environment and Hon. Dr. Abdul-Hakeem Mobolaji Abdul-Lateef–Commissioner Home Affairs. The Deputy Governor Mrs. Idiat Aderanti Adebule is to serve as commissioner for Education.
The fourteen Special Advisers are; Professor Ademola Abass,S.A Overseas Affairs and Investment, Chief (Mrs.) Nosimot Adebimpe Akinsola S.A Arts and Culture, Mr. Kehinde Oladapo Bamigbetan S.A Community and Communication, Mr. Obafela Eniola Bank-Olemoh S.A Education, Mr. Agboola Lukman Dabiri S.A Central Business District, Prince Olanrewaju Anofiu Elegushi S.A Transport, Mrs.Mudirat Aramide Giwanson S.A Housing, Mr. Babatunde Adande Hunpe S.A Environment, Mr. Olaide Kehinde Joseph S.A Civic Engagement, Mr. Benjamin Adeyemi Olabinjo S.A Commerce and Industry, Mrs. Yetunde Fusat Onabule S.A Urban Development, Dr. Olufemi Oludayo Onanuga S.A Primary Health Care,Mr. Ganiyu Babatunde Okanlawon Sanni S.A Food Security, Mr. Boonyamin Ayodeji S.A Sport and Chairman Lagos State Sports Commission .

			
			Post Views: 
			1,035