NWANDIKE UGOCHUKWU, Port Harcourt
RIVER State Governor, Nyesom Wike has disclosed that his administration has spent  N 1.4b so far on  scholarships for Rivers State students  schooling abroad.
The Governor who was ably represented by  Her Excellency, The Deputy Governor of Rivers State, Dr. Ipalibo Banigo, made the disclosure at the Inter-denominational Church Service , commemorating the 55th National Day Anniversary, which held today at the St. Paul’s (Ang.) Cathedral Church, Diobu, PortHarcourt.
His words : “ We thank the CAN president for expressing his concern about our students and want to assure you that His Excellency has so far spent N 1.4b so far on overseas scholarships and just last Thursday ,he released N 491 m to make sure that every child of Rivers State schooling abroad must receive money. We would continue to help the children irrespective of how they got there.”
The Governor was thankful to God for keeping the unity of Nigeria  intact, and was optimistic that Nigeria will overcome it present economic downturn.
He also believed that Nigeria will surmount its challenges of underdevelopment,insecurity and poverty because Nigeria is a blessed nation that must rid itself of bitterness and unforgiveness.
Speaking earlier at the occasion, the Archbishop of the Niger Delta Province and Bishop, Diocese of Niger Delta North, Most Rev.(Dr.) Ignatius C.O. Kattey, whose sermon was themed : FEAR GOD, remarked that “human beings fear what they should not fear and fear not what they should fear.”
He noted that no new state had been created since 1999 and observed that corruption was still rampant.
He said  the security situation had  not improved stressing that the Army and Police cannot handle it alone.
Also speaking at the event, the  Overseer of Royal House of Grace Church and President of Christian Association of Nigeria,CAN, Rivers State Chapter said that President Muhammadu Buhari should emulate the forgiving spirit of late President Nelson Mandela of South Africa.
He said: ” President Muhammadu Buhari has the chance to  be like Nelson Mandela. He should rule this country not as the President of Nigeria or the President of the APC or any political party but as a father of the nation.”

			
			Post Views: 
			59