By Lanre Adesanya
Emphasis has been laid on the need for state governments to enhance their Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) in response to the dwindling monthly Federal allocations.
This call was made by a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Oluyinka Ogundimu who is representing Agege constituency II at the Lateef Jakande Auditorium, Alausa Ikeja.
The lawmaker who was fielding questions from journalists is currently carrying out oversight function on the state Public Accounts.
Ogundimu is the Chairman Ad-Hoc Committee on Public Accounts. The Committee is expected to oversee the accounts of the Ministries, Departments and Agencies covering  2014.
He explained that the reality on grounds is that “there is urgent need to shore up the IGR, saying reliance on federal allocation is not worth it.”
He pointed out that while improving on the mechanism to generate IGR, there would be concerted efforts not to over-burden the public.
The Committee which is expected to submit its recommendations to the House in the next two weeks, revealed there were some deviations that must be looked into.
Commenting on the seemingly youths deprivation in the ministerial list, Ogundimu noted that it is really not a faulty step, stressing that the youths needs an enabling environment for them to thrive rather than struggle for a place on the ministerial list.
“Government need do more on education, security and economy, for the youths to thrive, ministerial appointment in not the major need,make the environment enabling and they will fare better, at least I was doing pretty well in my chosen field before venturing into politics”.
“If all of the old breeds are part of the problem, let them be part of the solution of the country’s problems, I think that informs why the President choose those you saw”.
Speaking on the Treasury Single Account (TSA) which was recently introduced by the federal government and domesticated in the state, the chairman explained that the system would automatically block leakages.
Ogundimu added that the MDAs have already complied on the Treasury Single Account, which he believes would have great positive impacts on the economy.

			
			Post Views: 
			163