WINNERS of the Top 100 Hotels in Lagos organized by Travelers Magazine, West Africa’s foremost travel journal, have emerged after a 2 month long survey of Travelers and Travel trade practitioners in Nigeria.
Eko Hotel emerged as the best ranked hotel in Lagos, while Intercontinental and Wheat Baker emerged second and third best ranked hotels respectively.
The survey for the top 100 hotels was done over two months through personal questionnaire survey of Hotel managers and secret vote by Travel Journalists in Lagos and online voting. The online voting was done via the largest travel news website in Africa www.atqnews.com.
Questionnaires were delivered as newsletters to over 25000 people globally and the votes were collated using the Survey Monkey software. Each voter was asked to rank the top 15 Hotels out of all the leading hotels in Lagos giving reasons for the ranking.
At the end of the survey, the hotels were now arranged according to the number of high ranks they had garnered.  Eko hotel had the highest number of number one votes in all the collated votes while other hotels on the top 25 list did well as number 2 and number 3 ranked hotels. Other hotels that did very well in the ranking includes Oriental Hotel, 4 points by Sheraton, Southern Sun hotel, Sheraton Ikeja hotel, Federal Palace hotel, Radisson Blu, Bogobori Hotel  Westwood, The Protea hotels and Golden Tulip Festac.
The ranking for these hospitality providers were based on the perceived service rendered, Location, facilities, and capacity of the hotels. The not so popular new players on the Top 25 list include The George in Ikoyi, Genesis Sojourner in Ikeja , Fahrenheit Maison in Victoria Island,  Ibis Hotel Toyin street, The Best Western hotels,  Welcome Centre and Admiralty Hotel Lekki.
The Full results for the Top 100 hotel in Lagos will be published in the next edition of Travelers magazine, and will be carried on www.atqnews.com. It will also be shared on different social media platforms.
Travelers Magazine will be presenting certificates to the Top 100 Hotels at the Hospitality Day on the 24thNovember, 2015 at the 11th AKWAABA Travel Market at Eko Hotel.
The presentation of certificate is a mark of Recognition and to encourage the hotels to maintain their standards and also to encourage other hotels not so chosen to up their games in the hospitality business and improve their appeal to the public.
Travelers Magazine started the Top 100 Hotels survey in 2001 and stopped the annual survey in 2006 when the then DG  of NTDC Dr. Eborieme set up the national Hotel Classification committee to grade hotels in Nigeria. Because the Publisher of Travelers Mr. Ikechi Uko was co-opted as a member of the committee it suspended its annual survey in order not to confuse the public with its survey. 

			
			PV: 
			0